This site displays a prototype of a “Web 2.0” version of the daily
Federal Register. It is not an official legal edition of the Federal
Register, and does not replace the official print version or the official
electronic version on GPO’s govinfo.gov.
The documents posted on this site are XML renditions of published Federal
Register documents. Each document posted on the site includes a link to the
corresponding official PDF file on govinfo.gov. This prototype edition of the
daily Federal Register on FederalRegister.gov will remain an unofficial
informational resource until the Administrative Committee of the Federal
Register (ACFR) issues a regulation granting it official legal status.
For complete information about, and access to, our official publications
and services, go to
About the Federal Register
on NARA's archives.gov.
The OFR/GPO partnership is committed to presenting accurate and reliable
regulatory information on FederalRegister.gov with the objective of
establishing the XML-based Federal Register as an ACFR-sanctioned
publication in the future. While every effort has been made to ensure that
the material on FederalRegister.gov is accurately displayed, consistent with
the official SGML-based PDF version on govinfo.gov, those relying on it for
legal research should verify their results against an official edition of
the Federal Register. Until the ACFR grants it official status, the XML
rendition of the daily Federal Register on FederalRegister.gov does not
provide legal notice to the public or judicial notice to the courts.
Enter a search term or FR citation e.g.
88 FR 38230 FR 78782024-13208USDA09/05/24RULE0503-AA39SORN
Choosing an item from
full text search results
will bring you to those results. Pressing enter in the search box
will also bring you to search results.
Choosing an item from
suggestions
will bring you directly to the content.
This table of contents is a navigational tool, processed from the
headings within the legal text of Federal Register documents.
This repetition of headings to form internal navigation links
has no substantive legal effect.
Document page views are updated periodically throughout the day and are
cumulative counts for this document. Counts are subject to sampling,
reprocessing and revision (up or down) throughout the day.
Page views
1,715
as of
09/09/2026 at 12:15 am EDT
Other Formats
Enhanced Content - Other Formats
This document is also available in the following formats:
This PDF is FR Doc. 2025-00657 as it appeared on Public Inspection on
01/14/2025 at 8:45 am.
It was viewed
34
times while on Public Inspection.
If you are using public inspection listings for legal research, you
should verify the contents of the documents against a final, official
edition of the Federal Register. Only official editions of the
Federal Register provide legal notice of publication to the public and judicial notice
to the courts under 44 U.S.C. 1503 & 1507.
Learn more here.
Published Document: 2025-00657 (90 FR 3788)
This document has been published in the Federal Register. Use the PDF linked in the document sidebar for the official electronic format.
AGENCY:
Enforcement and Compliance, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce.
DATES:
Applicable January 7, 2025.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Gorden Struck, Office II, AD/CVD Operations, Enforcement and Compliance, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230; telephone: (202) 482-8151.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
The Petition
On December 18, 2024, the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) received a countervailing duty (CVD) petition concerning imports of active anode material from the People's Republic of China (China) filed in proper form on behalf of the American Active Anode Material Producers (the petitioner),[1]
an
ad hoc
trade association of domestic producers.[2]
The CVD Petition was accompanied by an antidumping duty (AD) petition concerning imports of active anode material from China.[3]
Between December 19, 2024, and January 2, 2025, Commerce requested supplemental information pertaining to certain aspects of the Petition in supplemental questionnaires.[4]
On December 27, 2024, and January 3, 2025, the petitioner filed timely responses to these requests for additional information.[5]
( printed page 3789)
In accordance with section 702(b)(1) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act), the petitioner alleges that the Government of China (GOC) is providing countervailable subsidies, within the meaning of sections 701 and 771(5) of the Act, to producers of active anode material in China, and that imports of such products materially retard the establishment of an industry in the United States, or in the alternative, that such products are materially injuring, or threatening material injury to, the active anode material industry in the United States. Consistent with section 702(b)(1) of the Act and 19 CFR 351.202(b), for those alleged programs on which we are initiating a CVD investigation, the Petition was accompanied by information reasonably available to the petitioner supporting its allegations.
Commerce finds that the petitioner filed the Petition on behalf of the domestic industry, because the petitioner is an interested party, as defined in section 771(9)(F) of the Act. Commerce also finds that the petitioner demonstrated sufficient industry support with respect to the initiation of the requested CVD investigation.[6]
Period of Investigation
Because the Petition was filed on December 18, 2024, the period of investigation for the CVD investigation is January 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023.[7]
Scope of the Investigation
The product covered by this investigation is active anode material from China. For a full description of the scope of this investigation,
see
the appendix to this notice.
Comments on the Scope of the Investigation
On December 20, 2024 and January 2, 2025, Commerce requested information and clarification from the petitioner regarding the proposed scope to ensure that the scope language in the Petition is an accurate reflection of the products for which the domestic industry is seeking relief.[8]
On December 27, 2024 and January 3, 2025, the petitioner provided clarifications and revised the scope.[9]
The description of merchandise covered by this investigation, as described in the appendix to this notice, reflects these clarifications.
As discussed in the
Preamble
to Commerce's regulations, we are setting aside a period for interested parties to raise issues regarding product coverage (
i.e.,
scope).[10]
Commerce will consider all comments received from interested parties and, if necessary, will consult with interested parties prior to the issuance of the preliminary determination. If scope comments include factual information, all such factual information should be limited to public information.[11]
To facilitate preparation of its questionnaires, Commerce requests that scope comments be submitted by 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time (ET) on January 27, 2025, which is 20 calendar days from the signature date of this notice. Any rebuttal comments, which may include factual information, and should also be limited to public information, must be filed by 5:00 p.m. ET on February 6, 2025, which is 10 calendar days from the initial comment deadline.
Commerce requests that any factual information that parties consider relevant to the scope of the investigation be submitted during that time period. However, if a party subsequently finds that additional factual information pertaining to the scope of the investigation may be relevant, the party must contact Commerce and request permission to submit the additional information. All scope comments must be filed simultaneously on the records of the concurrent AD and CVD investigations.
Filing Requirements
All submissions to Commerce must be filed electronically via Enforcement and Compliance's Antidumping Duty and Countervailing Duty Centralized Electronic Service System (ACCESS), unless an exception applies.[12]
An electronically filed document must be received successfully in its entirety by the time and date it is due.
Consultations
Pursuant to sections 702(b)(4)(A)(i) and (ii) of the Act, Commerce notified the GOC of the receipt of the Petition and provided an opportunity for consultations with respect to the Petition.[13]
The GOC did not request consultations.
Determination of Industry Support for the Petition
Section 702(b)(1) of the Act requires that a petition be filed on behalf of the domestic industry. Section 702(c)(4)(A) of the Act provides that a petition meets this requirement if the domestic producers or workers who support the petition account for: (i) at least 25 percent of the total production of the domestic like product; and (ii) more than 50 percent of the production of the domestic like product produced by that portion of the industry expressing support for, or opposition to, the petition. Moreover, section 702(c)(4)(D) of the Act provides that, if the petition does not establish support of domestic producers or workers accounting for more than 50 percent of the total production of the domestic like product, Commerce shall: (i) poll the industry or rely on other information in order to determine if there is support for the petition, as required by subparagraph (A); or (ii) determine industry support using a statistically valid sampling method to poll the “industry.”
Section 771(4)(A) of the Act defines the “industry” as the producers as a whole of a domestic like product. Thus, to determine whether a petition has the requisite industry support, the statute directs Commerce to look to producers and workers who produce the domestic like product. The U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), which is responsible for determining whether “the domestic industry” has been injured, must also determine what constitutes a domestic like product in order to define the industry. While both Commerce and the ITC apply the same statutory definition regarding the domestic like product,[14]
they do so for different purposes and pursuant to a separate and distinct authority. In addition, Commerce's determination is subject to limitations of time and information. Although this may result in different definitions of the like product, such differences do not render the
( printed page 3790)
[15]
Section 771(10) of the Act defines the domestic like product as “a product which is like, or in the absence of like, most similar in characteristics and uses with, the article subject to an investigation under this title.” Thus, the reference point from which the domestic like product analysis begins is “the article subject to an investigation” (
i.e.,
the class or kind of merchandise to be investigated, which normally will be the scope as defined in the petition).
With regard to the domestic like product, the petitioner does not offer a definition of the domestic like product distinct from the scope of the investigation.[16]
Based on our analysis of the information submitted on the record, we have determined that active anode material, as defined in the scope, constitutes a single domestic like product, and we have analyzed industry support in terms of that domestic like product.[17]
In determining whether the petitioner has standing under section 702(c)(4)(A) of the Act, we considered the industry support data contained in the Petition with reference to the domestic like product as defined in the “Scope of the Investigation,” in the appendix to this notice. To establish industry support, the petitioner provided the 2023 production of the domestic like product for the supporters of the Petition and compared this to total 2023 production for the U.S. active anode material industry.[18]
We relied on data provided by the petitioner for purposes of measuring industry support.[19]
On December 30, 2024, we received timely filed comments on industry support from Tesla, Inc. (Tesla), a U.S. importer of active anode material.[20]
On January 2, 2025, the petitioner responded to the comments from Tesla in a timely filed rebuttal submission.[21]
Our review of the data provided in the Petition, the First General Issues Supplement, the Second General Issues Supplement, the Petitioner's Response, and other information readily available to Commerce indicates that the petitioner has established industry support for the Petition.[22]
First, the Petition established support from domestic producers (or workers) accounting for more than 50 percent of the total production of the domestic like product and, as such, Commerce is not required to take further action in order to evaluate industry support (
e.g.,
polling).[23]
Second, the domestic producers (or workers) have met the statutory criteria for industry support under section 702(c)(4)(A)(i) of the Act because the domestic producers (or workers) who support the Petition account for at least 25 percent of the total production of the domestic like product.[24]
Finally, the domestic producers (or workers) have met the statutory criteria for industry support under section 702(c)(4)(A)(ii) of the Act because the domestic producers (or workers) who support the Petition account for more than 50 percent of the production of the domestic like product produced by that portion of the industry expressing support for, or opposition to, the Petition.[25]
Accordingly, Commerce determines that the Petition was filed on behalf of the domestic industry within the meaning of section 702(b)(1) of the Act.[26]
Injury Test
Because China is a “Subsidies Agreement Country” within the meaning of section 701(b) of the Act, section 701(a)(2) of the Act applies to this investigation. Accordingly, the ITC must determine whether imports of the subject merchandise from China materially injure, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry, or whether the establishment of a U.S. industry is materially retarded, by reason of imports of the subject merchandise from China.
Allegations and Evidence of Material Injury and Causation
Section 703(a)(1)(B) of the Act states that the ITC “shall determine . . . whether there is a reasonable indication that the establishment of an industry in the United States is materially retarded by reason of imports of the subject merchandise.” The petitioner alleges that imports of subject merchandise are benefiting from countervailable subsidies and that such imports are materially retarding the establishment of the U.S. industry producing active anode material.[27]
The petitioner argues that its production has been “modest” and has not stabilized and, therefore, the U.S. industry producing active anode material has not been established.[28]
To support its argument, the petitioner examined the five factors [29]
the ITC considers to determine if an industry is established, as set forth in the ITC's
AD/CVD Handbook.[30]
If the ITC determines that an industry is not established, it then considers whether the performance of the industry reflects normal start-up difficulties or whether the imports of the subject merchandise have materially retarded the establishment of the industry.[31]
The petitioner contends that the domestic industry has performed substantially worse than what could reasonably be expected during normal start-up conditions, thereby demonstrating that the establishment of the domestic industry has been materially retarded by subject imports.[32]
The petitioner also alleges that, in the alternative, the U.S. industry producing the domestic like product is being materially injured, or is threatened with material injury, by reason of the imports of the subject merchandise benefitting from countervailable subsidies.[33]
In addition, the petitioner alleges that subject imports exceed the negligibility threshold provided under section 771(24)(A) of the Act.[34]
( printed page 3791)
The petitioner contends that the industry's materially retarded, or in the alternative, injured condition is illustrated by a significant volume of subject imports; significant market share of subject imports; lost sales and revenues; underselling; low levels of production; and negative impact on financial performance.[35]
We assessed the allegations and supporting evidence regarding material retardation, material injury, threat of material injury, causation, as well as negligibility, and we have determined that these allegations are properly supported by adequate evidence, and meet the statutory requirements for initiation.[36]
Initiation of CVD Investigation
Based upon the examination of the Petition and supplemental responses, we find that they meet the requirements of section 702 of the Act. Therefore, we are initiating a CVD investigation to determine whether imports of active anode material from China benefit from countervailable subsidies conferred by the GOC. In accordance with section 703(b)(1) of the Act and 19 CFR 351.205(b)(1), unless postponed, we will make our preliminary determination no later than 65 days after the date of this initiation.
Based on our review of the Petition, we find that there is sufficient information to initiate a CVD investigation on 34 of the 36 programs alleged by the petitioner. For a full discussion of the basis for our decision to initiate on each program,
see
the China CVD Initiation Checklist. A public version of the initiation checklist for this investigation is available on ACCESS.
Respondent Selection
In the Petition, the petitioner identified 30 companies in China as producers and/or exporters of active anode material.[37]
Commerce intends to follow its standard practice in CVD investigations and calculate company-specific subsidy rates in this investigation. In the event that Commerce determines that the number of companies is large and it cannot individually examine each company based on Commerce's resources, Commerce normally selects mandatory respondents in CVD investigations using U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) entry data for U.S. imports under the appropriate Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading(s) listed in the “Scope of the Investigation” in the appendix.
On January 7, 2025, Commerce released CBP data on imports of active anode material from China under administrative protective order (APO) to all parties with access to information protected by APO and indicated that interested parties wishing to comment on CBP data and/or respondent selection must do so within three business days of the publication date of the notice of initiation of this investigation.[38]
Comments must be filed electronically using ACCESS. An electronically-filed document must be received successfully in its entirety via ACCESS by 5:00 p.m. ET on the specified deadline. Commerce will not accept rebuttal comments regarding the CBP data or respondent selection.
In accordance with section 702(b)(4)(A) of the Act and 19 CFR 351.202(f), a copy of the public version of the Petition has been provided to the GOC via ACCESS. To the extent practicable, we will attempt to provide a copy of the public version of the Petition to each exporter named in the Petition, as provided under 19 CFR 351.203(c)(2).
ITC Notification
Commerce will notify the ITC of its initiation, as required by section 702(d) of the Act.
Preliminary Determination by the ITC
The ITC will preliminarily determine, within 45 days after the date on which the Petition was filed, whether there is a reasonable indication that imports of active anode material from China materially retard the establishment of a U.S. industry, or that subject imports are materially injuring, or threatening material injury to, a U.S. industry.[39]
A negative ITC determination will result in the investigation being terminated.[40]
Otherwise, this CVD investigation will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits.
Submission of Factual Information
Factual information is defined in 19 CFR 351.102(b)(21) as: (i) evidence submitted in response to questionnaires; (ii) evidence submitted in support of allegations; (iii) publicly available information to value factors of production under 19 CFR 351.408(c) or to measure the adequacy of remuneration under 19 CFR 351.511(a)(2); (iv) evidence placed on the record by Commerce; and (v) evidence other than factual information described in (i)-(iv). Section 351.301(b) of Commerce's regulations requires any party, when submitting factual information, to specify under which subsection of 19 CFR 351.102(b)(21) the information is being submitted [41]
and, if the information is submitted to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information already on the record, to provide an explanation identifying the information already on the record that the factual information seeks to rebut, clarify, or correct.[42]
Time limits for the submission of factual information are addressed in 19 CFR 351.301, which provides specific time limits based on the type of factual information being submitted. Interested parties should review the regulations prior to submitting factual information in this investigation.
Extensions of Time Limits
Parties may request an extension of time limits before the expiration of a time limit established under 19 CFR 351.301, or as otherwise specified by Commerce. In general, an extension request will be considered untimely if it is filed after the expiration of the time limit established under 19 CFR 351.301, or as otherwise specified by Commerce.[43]
For submissions that are due from multiple parties simultaneously, an extension request will be considered untimely if it is filed after 10:00 a.m. ET on the due date. Under certain circumstances, Commerce may elect to specify a different time limit by which extension requests will be considered untimely for submissions which are due from multiple parties simultaneously. In such a case, we will inform parties in a letter or memorandum of the deadline (including a specified time) by which extension requests must be filed to be considered timely. An extension request must be made in a separate, standalone submission; under limited circumstances we will grant untimely filed requests for the extension of time
( printed page 3792)
19 CFR 351.302, that extraordinary circumstances exist. Parties should review Commerce's regulations concerning the extension of time limits and the
Time Limits Final Rule
prior to submitting factual information in this investigation.[44]
Certification Requirements
Any party submitting factual information in an AD or CVD proceeding must certify to the accuracy and completeness of that information.[45]
Parties must use the certification formats provided in 19 CFR 351.303(g).[46]
Commerce intends to reject factual submissions if the submitting party does not comply with the applicable certification requirements.
Notification to Interested Parties
Interested parties must submit applications for disclosure under APO in accordance with 19 CFR 351.305. Parties wishing to participate in this investigation should ensure that they meet the requirements of 19 CFR 351.103(d) (
e.g.,
by filing the required letters of appearance). Note that Commerce has amended certain of its requirements pertaining to the service of documents in 19 CFR 351.303(f).[47]
This notice is issued and published pursuant to sections 702 and 777(i) of the Act, and 19 CFR 351.203(c).
Dated: January 7, 2025.
Steven Presing,
Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and Negotiations.
Appendix—Scope of the Investigation
The merchandise covered by this investigation is active anode material, which is an anode grade graphite material with a graphite minimum purity content of 90 percent carbon by weight, whether containing synthetic graphite, natural graphite, or a blend of synthetic and natural graphite; with or without coating. Subject merchandise may be in the form of powder, dry, liquid, or block form and is covered irrespective of the form in which it enters. Subject merchandise typically has a maximum size of 80 microns when in powder form. Subject merchandise has an energy density of 330 milliamp hours per gram or greater and a degree of graphitization of 80 percent or greater, where graphitization refers to the extent of the graphite crystal structure.
Subject merchandise is covered regardless of whether it is mixed with silicon based active materials,
e.g.,
silicon-oxide (SiOx), silicon-carbon (SiC), or silicon, or additives such as carbon black or carbon nanotubes. Subject merchandise is covered regardless of the combination of compounds that comprise the graphite material. Subject merchandise is covered regardless of whether it is imported independently, as part of a compound, in a battery, as a component of an anode slurry, or in a subassembly of a battery such as an electrode. Only the anode grade graphite material is covered when entered as part of a mixture with silicon based active materials, as part of a compound, in a batter, as a component of an anode slurry, or in a subassembly of a battery such as an electrode.
Active anode material subject to the investigation may be classified under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheadings 2504.10.5000 and 3801.10.5000. Subject merchandise may also enter under HTSUS subheadings 2504.10.1000 and 3801.90.0000. The HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes only. The written description of the scope of the investigation is dispositive.
Footnotes
1.
The members of the American Active Anode Material Producers are Anovion Technologies, Syrah Technologies LLC, NOVONIX Anode Materials LLC, Epsilon Advanced Materials, and SKI US, Inc.
4.
See
Commerce's Letters, “Supplemental Questions,” dated December 19, 2024; and “Supplemental Questions,” dated December 20, 2024 (General Issues Questionnaire);
see also
Memorandum, “Phone Call with Counsel to the Petitioner,” dated January 2, 2025 (January 2, 2025, Memorandum).
5.
See
Petitioner's Letters, “Response to Supplemental Questions Regarding Common Issues and Injury Volume I of the Petitions,” dated December 27, 2024 (First General Issues Supplement); “Response to Supplemental Questions Regarding Countervailing Duty Volume III of the Petitions,” dated December 27, 2024; and “Response to Supplemental Questions Regarding
Volume I of the Petitions,” dated January 3, 2025 (Second General Issues Supplement).
15.
See USEC, Inc.
v.
United States,
132 F. Supp. 2d 1, 8 (CIT 2001) (citing
Algoma Steel Corp., Ltd.
v.
United States,
688 F. Supp. 639, 644 (CIT 1988),
aff'd Algoma Steel Corp., Ltd.
v.
United States,
865 F.2d 240 (Fed. Cir. 1989)).
16.
For a discussion of the domestic like product analysis as applied to this case and information regarding industry support,
see
Checklist, “Countervailing Duty Investigation Initiation Checklist: Active Anode Material from the People's Republic of China,” dated concurrently with, and hereby adopted by, this notice (China CVD Initiation Checklist), at Attachment II, Analysis of Industry Support for the Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Petitions Covering Active Anode Material from the People's Republic of China (Attachment II). This checklist is on file electronically via ACCESS.
27.
For a discussion of the petitioner's injury allegation,
see
China CVD Initiation Checklist at Attachment III, Analysis of Allegations and Evidence of Material Retardation, Material Injury, and Causation for the Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Petitions Covering Active Anode Material from the People's Republic of China (Attachment III).
47.
See Administrative Protective Order, Service, and Other Procedures in Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Proceedings,88 FR 67069 (September 29, 2023).