If you disagree with a decision made by U.S. Customs and Border Protection or want to correct information previously entered on entry documents, you have three options.
The options available depend on the entry summary liquidation status. Once liquidation has occurred, the only option available for relief is to file a Protest. 19 U.S.C 1514, Protest Against Decisions of Customs Service provides the legal vehicle for importers and interested parties to administratively contest CBP decisions related to imported merchandise.
Within 180 days of liquidation, the importer, their broker, or attorney can contest CBP decisions relating to imported merchandise with a protest under section 514 of the Tariff Act of 1930. Protests and petitions are generally filed on CBP Form 19. This form provides instructions on what is required to file a protest. However, there is no statutory requirement that a protest or petition be filed on CBP Form 19. Any document received, which can be construed to contest a decision and is signed by the party of interest should be treated as a protest.
Protests may be filed electronically in the ACE Protest module, or by paper submission at the port where entry was made. The Protest application provides an online form that enables trade or CBP users to add a protest record to the ACE Protest Module. To file a protest in ACE, trade users must establish and maintain a protest filer account within the ACE Portal.
On December 9, 2020, CBP provided the trade community a webinar covering topics specific to protests (19 U.S.C. 1514). The webinar topics included Trade Remedy protests, selected protest topics such as submission and amending, Application for Further Review (AFR), Center of Excellence and Expertise (Center) submission best practices, and Accelerated Disposition & Court of International Trade (CIT) filings. Please visit the Trade Outreach Webinars webpage to view this resource.
For more information on protest, please see the protest section in the ACE Entry Summary Business Rules and Process document, CBP's ACE Protest Frequently Asked Questions and the Protest in ACE webpage.