CLA-2-38:OT:RR:NC:N3:139
Mr. Hyeok Min Kwon
KPMG Korea
28, Nonhyeon-ro 85-gil, Gangnam-gu,
Seoul, 06236
Republic of Korea
RE:	The tariff classification of Nickel Cobalt Manganese Oxide containing doping elements from Korea   
Dear Mr. Kwon:
In your letter dated September 16, 2021, you requested a tariff classification ruling on behalf of your client EcoProBM.
The material in question, which goes by the item code CSG131-13AW, is nickel cobalt manganese oxide, in a black powder state, and is a raw material for manufacturing lithium ion batteries.  This product is an inorganic compound composed of three metallic elements: nickel (Ni), cobalt (Co), and manganese (Mn), and is doped with the following elements: aluminum (Al), zirconium (Zr), and titanium (Ti) in order to improve product performance. The doping elements forms ionic covalent bonds with the metallic elements. In addition, this product is coated with a coating element of Ti to improve structural stability.  This coating element is not chemically bonded with the metallic elements, but rather forms a separate film on the surface of the product.
 
The applicable subheading for CSG131-13AW will be 3824.99.3900, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), which provides for Prepared binders for foundry molds or cores; chemical products and preparations of the chemical or allied industries (including
those consisting of mixtures of natural products), not elsewhere specified or included: Other: Other: Other: Mixtures of two or more inorganic compounds: Other.  The rate of duty will be free.
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.  The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are provided on the World Wide Web at https://hts.usitc.gov/current.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be provided with the entry documents filed at the time this merchandise is imported.  If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National Import Specialist John Bobel at [email protected].
Sincerely,
Steven A. Mack
Director
National Commodity Specialist Division