[Page 1]
 
Targeted Trade Enforcement in Action:  
Common Alloy Aluminum Sheet AD/CVD One Year Later 
 
In response to a surge in imports of common alloy aluminum sheet (“CAAS”) from numerous countries following the imposition of 
antidumping (“AD”) and countervailing duties (“CVD”) on imports of CAAS from the People’s Republic of China in February 2019, the 
Aluminum Association Trade Enforcement Working Group filed trade remedy petitions in March 2020 requesting relief from the unfairly 
traded imports from Bahrain, Brazil, Croatia, Egypt, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Italy, Oman, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, South Africa, 
South Korea, Spain, Taiwan, and Turkey.  After successfully demonstrating that dumped and subsidized imports from 16 of the 18 countries1 
were injuring U.S. producers, the Commerce Department published final AD and CVD orders on imports of CAAS from 16 countries on April 
27, 2021.  The combined AD and CVD margins calculated by the Commerce Department range from 3.2 to 242.8 percent, reflecting the 
substantial magnitude of the unfair trade by producers and exporters of CAAS in the 16 countries covered by AD/CVD orders. In the months 
since the price-disciplining effects of these durable trade remedies came into force, there have been numerous encouraging developments 
for the U.S. industry producing CAAS: 
 
• The volume of CAAS imports from the 16 countries now covered by AD/CVD orders fell by 66.8 percent between 2019 and 2021, 
declining from 1.32 billion pounds to 438.65 million pounds; 
• While imports of unfairly-traded CAAS from the 16 countries now subject to AD/CVD orders accounted for 62.7 percent of total U.S. 
imports in 2019, imports from those countries accounted for just 25.2 percent of total U.S. imports in 2021; 
• The average unit value of CAAS imports from the 16 covered countries increased by 9.0 percent between 2019 and 2021, rising from 
$1.34/lb. to $1.46/lb., reflecting that producers in the covered countries have responded to publication of the AD/CVD orders by 
increasing the prices at which they sell CAAS in the United States – consistent with the underlying purpose of the United States’ 
unfair trade laws; 
• Based on Aluminum Association data, U.S. producer shipments of CAAS increased by 24.4 percent, from 2.69 billion pounds in 2020 
to 3.34 billion pounds in 2021. 
 
1   The Commerce Department reached final negative determinations in its antidumping investigations on imports of CAAS from Greece and 
Korea. 

[Page 2]
     May 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Prelim. Subsidy 
Margins - China 
Prelim. Dumping 
Margins - China 
Final AD/CVD 
Orders - 16 
Co. 
Final AD/CVD 
Orders - 
China 
Prelim. Subsidy 
Margins - 16 Co. 
Prelim. Dumping 
Margins - 16 Co. 

[Page 3]
     May 2022 
There have also been significant investments announced by U.S. producers of CAAS since trade remedy orders were put in place on imports 
of unfairly traded CAAS.  U.S. CAAS producers announced more than $1 billion of investments around the time of the unfair trade cases 
against CAAS from China, and further substantial investments by U.S. producers are possible.  Specifically, these investments include: 
 
• Aleris’ investment in its Lewisport, Kentucky mill (now operated by Commonwealth Rolled Products Inc.); 
• Texarkana Aluminum’s purchase and re-start of a mill in Texarkana, Texas from Arconic; 
• JW Aluminum’s investment of $207 million in its Mount Holly, South Carolina mill – the first stage of a two-stage expansion plan; 
and 
• Arconic’s investment of $100 million in its Tennessee operations. 
 
These substantial capital investments will expand and further strengthen the competitiveness of facilities at which domestic producers 
manufacture CAAS.  These investments will support well-paying manufacturing jobs and allow domestic producers to meet customer 
demands for increased volumes of high-quality CAAS products. 
 
These positive developments demonstrate that the Aluminum Association Trade Enforcement Working Group’s strategy of pursuing 
targeted trade enforcement actions to obtain relief from surging volumes of unfairly low-priced imports of CAAS is working and is producing 
significant positive results for aluminum producers in the United States. 
 