Hyundai $20 billion investment will have a positive impact on the Hyundai Metaplant in Bryan County: Here's how
WJCL is learning more about Hyundai's $20 billion investment into the U.S. that will have an impact on the Metaplant in Bryan County that's set to open on Wednesday.
Hyundai announced on Monday it would build one of the world’s biggest steel mill in Louisiana, which will produce more than 2.7 million metrics tons of steel a year.
It will supply steel for auto parts and auto plants in Bryan County and Alabama.
“Eventually, 100 percent of the car that's being manufactured here will be 100 percent here as it relates to parts, everything that goes with it, whether it's the brakes, the seats, all of that will be built on our end, and so you truly have a tariff less footprint, with what we're doing here. So, it's remarkable,” said president and CEO of Savannah Economic Development Authority Trip Tollison.
Tollison said not relying on shipments outside the country is a win for the Hyundai Metaplant due to the current 25% tariffs put in place by President Donald Trump.
“The more that you have companies that come in and do onshore and, within the United States, they reduce that tariff burden. And I think that's what the administration is trying to do is encourage more investment in the United States and manufacturing so that companies will get around those tariffs,” Tollison said.
The investment will also positively impact Hyundai Metaplant by creating more career opportunities.
“This will allow Hyundai to not only meet its production goals, but also to potentially produce new models and meet their very aggressive staffing goals of almost 9000 workers,” said corporate sites selection expert John Boyd.
During a news conference on Monday, Trump also shared the Hyundai investment will fund billions of dollar in advanced American technology companies.
While the Hyundai Metaplant in Bryan County did not directly comment on the investment, in an email to WJCL, a representative wrote, “more details will be shared at Wednesday’s grand opening.”