This site displays a prototype of a “Web 2.0” version of the daily
Federal Register. It is not an official legal edition of the Federal
Register, and does not replace the official print version or the official
electronic version on GPO’s govinfo.gov.
The documents posted on this site are XML renditions of published Federal
Register documents. Each document posted on the site includes a link to the
corresponding official PDF file on govinfo.gov. This prototype edition of the
daily Federal Register on FederalRegister.gov will remain an unofficial
informational resource until the Administrative Committee of the Federal
Register (ACFR) issues a regulation granting it official legal status.
For complete information about, and access to, our official publications
and services, go to
About the Federal Register
on NARA's archives.gov.
The OFR/GPO partnership is committed to presenting accurate and reliable
regulatory information on FederalRegister.gov with the objective of
establishing the XML-based Federal Register as an ACFR-sanctioned
publication in the future. While every effort has been made to ensure that
the material on FederalRegister.gov is accurately displayed, consistent with
the official SGML-based PDF version on govinfo.gov, those relying on it for
legal research should verify their results against an official edition of
the Federal Register. Until the ACFR grants it official status, the XML
rendition of the daily Federal Register on FederalRegister.gov does not
provide legal notice to the public or judicial notice to the courts.
Enter a search term or FR citation e.g.
88 FR 38230 FR 78782024-13208USDA09/05/24RULE0503-AA39SORN
Choosing an item from
full text search results
will bring you to those results. Pressing enter in the search box
will also bring you to search results.
Choosing an item from
suggestions
will bring you directly to the content.
Aluminum Extrusions From the People's Republic of China: Preliminary Affirmative Countervailing Duy Determination, and Alignment of Final Determination With Final Antidumping Duty Determination
This table of contents is a navigational tool, processed from the
headings within the legal text of Federal Register documents.
This repetition of headings to form internal navigation links
has no substantive legal effect.
Aluminum Extrusions From the People's Republic of China: Preliminary Affirmative Countervailing Duy Determination, and Alignment of Final Determination With Final Antidumping Duty Determination
Document page views are updated periodically throughout the day and are
cumulative counts for this document. Counts are subject to sampling,
reprocessing and revision (up or down) throughout the day.
Page views
10,254
as of
09/09/2026 at 12:15 pm EDT
Other Formats
Enhanced Content - Other Formats
This document is also available in the following formats:
This PDF is FR Doc. 2024-05070 as it appeared on Public Inspection on
03/08/2024 at 8:45 am.
It was viewed
35
times while on Public Inspection.
If you are using public inspection listings for legal research, you
should verify the contents of the documents against a final, official
edition of the Federal Register. Only official editions of the
Federal Register provide legal notice of publication to the public and judicial notice
to the courts under 44 U.S.C. 1503 & 1507.
Learn more here.
Published Document: 2024-05070 (89 FR 17394)
This document has been published in the Federal Register. Use the PDF linked in the document sidebar for the official electronic format.
AGENCY:
Enforcement and Compliance, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce.
SUMMARY:
The U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) preliminarily determines that countervailable subsidies are being provided to producers and exporters of aluminum extrusions from the People's Republic of China (China). The period of investigation (POI) is January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022. Interested parties are invited to comment on this preliminary determination.
DATES:
Applicable March 11, 2024.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Eliza DeLong, AD/CVD Operations, Office V, Enforcement and Compliance, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230; telephone: (202) 482-3878.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Background
This preliminary determination is made in accordance with section 703(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act). Commerce published the notice of initiation of this countervailing duty (CVD) investigation on October 31, 2023.[1]
On December 6, 2023, Commerce postponed the preliminary determination until March 4, 2024.[2]
For a complete description of events that followed the initiation of this investigation,
see
the Preliminary Decision Memorandum.[3]
A list of topics discussed in the Preliminary Decision Memorandum is included as Appendix II to this notice. The Preliminary Decision Memorandum is a public document and is on file electronically via Enforcement and Compliance's Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Centralized Electronic Service System (ACCESS). ACCESS is available to registered users at
https://access.trade.gov.
In addition, a complete version of the Preliminary Decision Memorandum can be accessed directly at
https://access.trade.gov/public/FRNoticesListLayout.aspx.
Scope of the Investigation
The products covered by this investigation are aluminum extrusions from China. For a complete description of the scope of this investigation,
see
Appendix I.
Scope Comments
In accordance with the
Preamble
to Commerce's regulations,[4]
the
Initiation Notice
set aside a period of time for parties to raise issues regarding product coverage (
i.e.,
scope).[5]
To date, numerous interested parties have commented on the scope of the investigation as it appeared in the
Initiation Notice.
(Separately, on February 20, 2024, the petitioners [6]
proposed that Commerce modify the scope of the investigation.[7]
For further discussion of this latter submission,
see
below.) All parties agree that a number of products are excluded from the scope of this investigation, and, after analyzing the comments from these parties, Commerce preliminarily finds that these products are not subject merchandise.[8]
As a result, Commerce has preliminarily determined to modify the scope of this investigation to add two examples of excluded products (
i.e.,
solar panels and off-grid solar modules), as well as to exclude precision non-electrically conductive coated buss bars and precision drawn aluminum tubing.
See
the scope in Appendix I to this notice. For further discussion,
see
the Preliminary Scope Decision Memorandum.[9]
Additionally, Commerce preliminary determines that the scope language in paragraph eight of the scope as it appeared in the
Initiation Notice,
“so long as they remain subject to the scope of such orders,” has the potential to result in the future expansion of the scope of this order, if it is put in place. We have removed this language from the scope for the preliminary determination for this reason, and Commerce is preliminarily modifying the scope language as it appeared in the
Initiation Notice
accordingly.
See
the scope in Appendix I to this notice.
Finally, as noted above, in comments dated February 20, 2024, the petitioners proposed several substantive modifications to the scope of this investigation, as well as the scope in the companion antidumping duty (AD) and CVD investigations.[10]
In particular, the
( printed page 17395)
(1) define the term “part or subassemblies” as:
A part or subassembly is a product that is designed to be attached to other components to eventually form a completed product or is a product that is designed for the sole purpose of becoming part of a larger whole.
(2) add the following three-part test to determine whether products containing multiple subassemblies are excluded from the scope:
The scope also excludes merchandise containing multiple subassemblies of a larger whole with non-extruded aluminum components beyond fasteners. A covered subassembly, including any product expressly identified as subject merchandise in this scope, can only be excluded if it is fully and permanently assembled with at least one other different subassembly, and where (1) at least one of the subassemblies, if entered individually, would not itself be subject to the scope; (2) the non-extruded aluminum portion (excluding any fasteners) collectively accounts for more than 50 percent of the actual weight of the combined multiple subassemblies; and (3) the non-extruded aluminum portion (excluding any fasteners) collectively accounts for more than 50 percent of the number of pieces of the combined multiple subassemblies; and
(3) modify the definition of “assembled merchandise” to add the term “fully and permanently assembled”; to add the word “whole”; to add the phrase “with the exception of consumable parts or material or interchangeable media or tooling”; to remove the phrase “product or system”; and to remove the phrase “regardless of whether the additional parts or materials are interchangeable.” This paragraph now reads:
The scope excludes fully and permanently assembled merchandise containing non-extruded aluminum components beyond fasteners that is not a part or subassembly of a larger whole and that is used as imported, without undergoing after importation any processing, fabrication, finishing, or assembly or the addition of parts or material (with the exception of consumable parts or material or interchangeable media or tooling).
Given that these proposed modifications are complex and the petitioners requested them close in time to the CVD preliminary determination, Commerce has had insufficient time to evaluate them fully. We intend to request that the petitioners clarify certain aspects of the revised language after the issuance of this preliminary determination, and also to allow all interested parties the opportunity to comment on the proposed revisions and any clarifications provided by the petitioners.[11]
We will address these comments and make a determination as to the appropriateness of adopting the proposed languages no later than May 1, 2024, the date of the preliminary determinations in the companion less-than-fair-value investigations.
We also intend to issue our preliminary decision regarding the remaining scope comments received from interested parties in response to the comment period set forth in the
Initiation Notice
no later than May 1, 2024, and we will establish a briefing schedule to allow interested parties to comment on our preliminary scope decisions at that time.
We intend to incorporate the scope decisions from the AD investigations into the scope of the final CVD determination for this investigation, after considering any relevant comments submitted in scope case and rebuttal briefs.[12]
Methodology
Commerce is conducting this investigation in accordance with section 701 of the Act. For each of the subsidy programs found to be countervailable, Commerce preliminarily determines that there is a subsidy,
i.e.,
a financial contribution by an “authority” that gives rise to a benefit to the recipient, and that the subsidy is specific.[13]
For a full description of the methodology underlying our preliminary determination,
see
the Preliminary Decision Memorandum.
Commerce notes that, in making these findings, it relied, in part, on facts available, and, because it finds that certain of the respondents and the Government of China did not act to the best of their ability to respond to Commerce's requests for information, it drew an adverse inference where appropriate in selecting from among the facts otherwise available.[14]
For further information,
see
the “Use of Facts Otherwise Available and Adverse Inferences” section in the Preliminary Decision Memorandum.
Alignment
In accordance with section 705(a)(1) of the Act and 19 CFR 351.210(b)(4), Commerce is aligning the final CVD determination in this investigation with the final determination in the concurrent AD investigation of aluminum extrusions from China, based on a request made by the petitioners.[15]
Consequently, the final CVD determination will be issued on the same date as the final AD determination, which is currently scheduled to be issued no later than July 15, 2024, unless postponed.[16]
All-Others Rate
Sections 703(d) and 705(c)(5)(A) of the Act provide that, in the preliminary determination, Commerce shall determine an estimated all-others rate for companies not individually examined. This rate shall be an amount equal to the weighted average of the estimated subsidy rates established for those companies individually examined, excluding any rates that are zero,
de minimis,
or based entirely under section 776 of the Act.
In this investigation, Commerce preliminarily calculated an individual estimated countervailable subsidy rate for Sanhua (Hangzhou) Micro Channel Heat Exchanger Co., Ltd. (Sanhua), the individually-examined exporter/producer in this investigation for which Commerce is calculating an estimated countervailable subsidy rate.[17]
Because the only individually calculated rate is not zero,
de minimis,
or based entirely on facts otherwise available, the estimated weighted-average rate calculated for Sanhua is the rate assigned to all other producers and exporters, pursuant to section 705(c)(5)(A)(i) of the Act.
( printed page 17396)
Preliminary Determination
Commerce preliminarily determines that the following estimated countervailable subsidy rates exist:
Shenyang Yuanda Aluminum Industry Engineering Co., Ltd
169.66
Shenzhen SinoGar Aluminum Co., Ltd
169.66
Wenzhou Yongtai Electric Co., Ltd
169.66
Wuxi Rapid Scaffolding (Engineering) Co. Ltd
169.66
Yekalon Industry Inc
169.66
All Others
15.41
Disclosure
Commerce intends to disclose to interested parties the calculations performed in connection with this preliminary determination within five days of its public announcement or, if there is no public announcement, within five days of the date of publication of this notice in accordance with 19 CFR 351.224(b).
Suspension of Liquidation
In accordance with section 703(d)(1)(B) and (d)(2) of the Act, Commerce will direct U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to suspend liquidation of entries of subject merchandise as described in the scope of the investigation entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the
Federal Register
. Further, pursuant to 19 CFR 351.205(d), Commerce will instruct CBP to require a cash deposit equal to the rates indicated above.
Verification
As provided in section 782(i)(1) of the Act, Commerce intends to verify the information relied upon in making its final determination.
Public Comment
All interested parties will have the opportunity to submit scope case and rebuttal briefs related to the preliminary scope decisions made in this investigation. The deadlines to submit scope case and rebuttal briefs will be provided at a later time. For all scope case and rebuttal briefs, parties must file identical documents simultaneously on the records of the ongoing companion AD and CVD investigations. No new factual information or business proprietary information may be included in either scope case or rebuttal briefs.
Case briefs or other written comments on non-scope issues may be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance no later than seven days after the date on which the last verification report is issued in this investigation. Rebuttal briefs, limited to issues raised in the case briefs, may be filed not later than five days after the date for filing case briefs.[19]
Interested parties who submit case briefs or rebuttal briefs in this proceeding must submit: (1) a table of contents listing each issue; and (2) a table of authorities.[20]
As provided under 19 CFR 351.309(c)(2) and (d)(2), in prior proceedings we have encouraged interested parties to provide an executive summary of their brief that should be limited to five pages total, including footnotes. In this investigation, we instead request that interested parties provide at the beginning of their briefs a public, executive summary for each issue raised in their briefs.[21]
Further, we request that interested parties limit their executive summary of each issue to no more than 450 words, not including citations. We intend to use the executive summaries as the basis of the comment summaries included in the issues and decision memorandum that will accompany the final determination in this investigation. We request that interested parties include footnotes for relevant citations in the executive summary of each issue. Note that Commerce has amended certain of its requirements pertaining to the service of documents in 19 CFR 351.303(f).[22]
Pursuant to 19 CFR 351.310(c), interested parties who wish to request a hearing, limited to issues raised in the case and rebuttal briefs, must submit a written request to the Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance, U.S. Department of Commerce via ACCESS within 30 days after the date of publication of this notice. Requests should contain the party's name, address, and telephone number, the number of participants, and a list of the issues to be discussed. Oral presentations at the hearing will be limited to issues raised in the briefs. If a request for a hearing is made, parties will be notified of the time and date for the hearing.[23]
Parties should confirm by telephone the date, time, and location of the hearing two days before the scheduled date.
U.S. International Trade Commission Notification
In accordance with section 703(f) of the Act, Commerce will notify the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) of its determination. If the final determination is affirmative, the ITC will determine before the later of 120 days after the date of this preliminary determination or 45 days after the final determination whether imports of aluminum extrusions from China are
( printed page 17397)
Notification to Interested Parties
This determination is issued and published in accordance with sections 703(f) and 777(i)(1) of the Act, and 19 CFR 351.205(c).
Dated: March 4, 2024.
Ryan Majerus
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and Negotiations, performing the non-exclusive functions and duties of the Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance.
Attachment I—Scope of the Investigation
The merchandise subject to this investigation is aluminum extrusions, regardless of form, finishing, or fabrication, whether assembled with other parts or unassembled, whether coated, painted, anodized, or thermally improved. Aluminum extrusions are shapes and forms, produced by an extrusion process, made from aluminum alloys having metallic elements corresponding to the alloy series designations published by the Aluminum Association commencing with the numbers 1, 3, and 6 (or proprietary equivalents or other certifying body equivalents). Specifically, subject aluminum extrusions made from an aluminum alloy with an Aluminum Association series designation commencing with the number 1 contain not less than 99 percent aluminum by weight. Subject aluminum extrusions made from an aluminum alloy with an Aluminum Association series designation commencing with the number 3 contain manganese as the major alloying element, with manganese accounting for not more than 3.0 percent of total materials by weight. Subject aluminum extrusions made from an aluminum alloy with an Aluminum Association series designation commencing with the number 6 contain magnesium and silicon as the major alloying elements, with magnesium accounting for at least 0.1 percent but not more than 2.0 percent of total materials by weight, and silicon accounting for at least 0.1 percent but not more than 3.0 percent of total materials by weight. The scope also includes merchandise made from an aluminum alloy with an Aluminum Association series designation commencing with the number 5 (or proprietary equivalents or other certifying body equivalents) that have a magnesium content accounting for up to but not more than 2.0 percent of total materials by weight.
The country of origin of the aluminum extrusion is determined by where the metal is extruded (
i.e.,
pressed through a die).
Aluminum extrusions are produced and imported in a wide variety of shapes and forms, including, but not limited to, hollow profiles, other solid profiles, pipes, tubes, bars, and rods. Aluminum extrusions that are drawn subsequent to extrusion (drawn aluminum) are also included in the scope.
Subject aluminum extrusions are produced and imported with a variety of coatings and surface treatments, and types of fabrication. The types of coatings and treatments applied to aluminum extrusions include, but are not limited to, extrusions that are mill finished (
i.e.,
without any coating or further finishing), brushed, buffed, polished, anodized (including bright dip), liquid painted, electroplated, chromate converted, powder coated, sublimated, wrapped, and/or bead blasted. Subject aluminum extrusions may also be fabricated,
i.e.,
prepared for assembly, or thermally improved. Such operations would include, but are not limited to, extrusions that are cut-to-length, machined, drilled, punched, notched, bent, stretched, stretch-formed, hydroformed, knurled, swedged, mitered, chamfered, threaded, and spun. Performing such operations in third countries does not otherwise remove the merchandise from the scope of the investigation.
The types of products that meet the definition of subject merchandise include but are not limited to, vehicle roof rails and sun/moon roof framing, solar panel racking rails and framing, tradeshow display fixtures and framing, parts for tents or clear span structures, fence posts, drapery rails or rods, electrical conduits, door thresholds, flooring trim, electric vehicle battery trays, heat sinks, signage or advertising poles, picture frames, telescoping poles, or cleaning system components.
Aluminum extrusions may be heat sinks, which are fabricated aluminum extrusions that dissipate heat away from a heat source and may serve other functions, such as structural functions. Heat sinks come in a variety of sizes and shapes, including but not limited to a flat electronic heat sink, which is a solid aluminum extrusion with at least one flat side used to mount electronic or mechanical devices; a heat sink that is a housing for electronic controls or motors; lighting heat sinks, which dissipate heat away from LED devices; and process and exchange heat sinks, which are tube extrusions with fins or plates used to hold radiator tubing. Heat sinks are included in the scope, regardless of whether the design and production of the heat sinks are organized around meeting specified thermal performance requirements and regardless of whether they have been tested to comply with such requirements. For purposes of the investigation on aluminum extrusions from the People's Republic of China, only heat sinks designed and produced around meeting specified thermal performance requirements and tested to comply with such requirements are included in the scope.
Merchandise that is comprised solely of aluminum extrusions or aluminum extrusions and fasteners, whether assembled at the time of importation or unassembled, is covered by the scope in its entirety.
The scope also covers aluminum extrusions that are imported with non-extruded aluminum components beyond fasteners, whether assembled at the time of importation or unassembled, that are a part or subassembly of a larger product or system. Only the aluminum extrusion portion of the merchandise described in this paragraph, whether assembled or unassembled, is subject to duties. Examples of merchandise that is a part or subassembly of a larger product or system include, but are not limited to, window parts or subassemblies; door unit parts or subassemblies; shower and bath system parts or subassemblies; solar panel mounting systems; fenestration system parts or subassemblies, such as curtain wall and window wall units and parts or subassemblies of storefronts; furniture parts or subassemblies; appliance parts or subassemblies, such as fin evaporator coils and systems for refrigerators; railing or deck system parts or subassemblies; fence system parts or subassemblies; motor vehicle parts or subassemblies, such as bumpers for motor vehicles; trailer parts or subassemblies, such as side walls, flooring, and roofings; electric vehicle charging station parts or subassemblies; or signage or advertising system parts or subassemblies. Parts or subassemblies described by this paragraph that are subject to duties in their entirety pursuant to existing antidumping and countervailing duty orders are excluded from the scope of this investigation. Any part or subassembly that otherwise meets the requirements of this scope and that is not covered by other antidumping and/or countervailing duty orders remains subject to the scope of the investigation.
The scope excludes assembled merchandise containing non-extruded aluminum components beyond fasteners that is not a part or subassembly of a larger product or system and that is used as imported, without undergoing after importation any processing, fabrication, finishing, or assembly or the addition of parts or material, regardless of whether the additional parts or material are interchangeable.
The scope also excludes merchandise containing non-extruded aluminum components beyond fasteners that is not apart or subassembly of a larger product or system that enters unassembled as a packaged combination of parts to be assembled as is for its intended use, without undergoing after importation any processing, fabrication, or finishing or the addition of parts or material, regardless of whether the additional parts or material are interchangeable. To be excluded under this paragraph, the merchandise must be sold and enter as a discrete kit on one Customs entry form.
Examples of such excluded assembled and unassembled merchandise include windows with glass, door units with door panel and glass, motor vehicles, trailers, furniture, appliances, and solar panels and solar modules.
The scope also includes aluminum extrusions that have been further processed in a third country, including, but not limited to, the finishing and fabrication processes described above, assembly, whether with other aluminum extrusion components or with non-aluminum extrusion components, or any other processing that would not otherwise remove the merchandise from the scope if performed in the country of manufacture of the in-scope product. Third country processing; finishing; and/or fabrication, including those processes described in the scope, does not alter the country of origin of the subject aluminum extrusions.
( printed page 17398)
The following aluminum extrusion products are excluded: aluminum extrusions made from an aluminum alloy with an Aluminum Association series designations commencing with the number 2 (or proprietary equivalents or other certifying body equivalents) and containing in excess of 1.5 percent copper by weight; aluminum extrusions made from an aluminum alloy with an Aluminum Association series designation commencing with the number 5 (or proprietary equivalents or other certifying body equivalents) and containing in excess of 2.0 percent magnesium by weight; and aluminum extrusions made from an aluminum alloy with an Aluminum Association series designation commencing with the number 7 (or proprietary equivalents or other certifying body equivalents) and containing in excess of 2.0 percent zinc by weight.
The scope also excludes aluminum alloy sheet or plates produced by means other than the extrusion process, such as aluminum products produced by a method of continuous casting or rolling. Cast aluminum products are also excluded. The scope also excludes unwrought aluminum in any form.
The scope also excludes collapsible tubular containers composed of metallic elements corresponding to alloy code 1080A as designated by the Aluminum Association (not including proprietary equivalents or other certifying body equivalents) where the tubular container (excluding the nozzle) meets each of the following dimensional characteristics: (1) length of 37 millimeters (mm) or 62 mm; (2) outer diameter of 11.0 mm or 12.7 mm; and (3) wall thickness not exceeding 0.13 mm.
Also excluded from the scope are extruded drawn solid profiles made from an aluminum alloy with the Aluminum Association series designation commencing with the number 1, 3, or 6 (or proprietary equivalents or other certifying body equivalents), including variants on individual alloying elements not to circumvent the other Aluminum Association series designations, which meet each of the following characteristics: (1) solid cross sectional area greater than 62.4 mm2 and less than 906 mm2, (2) minimum electrical conductivity of 58% of the international annealed copper standard (IACS) or maximum resistivity of 2.97 μΩ/cm, (3) a uniformly applied non-electrically conductive temperature-resistant coating co-extruded over characteristic (1) of either polyamide, cross-linked polyethylene, or silicone rubber material which meets the following standards: (a) Vicat A temperature threshold of >140 degrees Celsius, (b) flammability requirements of UL 94V-0, and (c) a minimum coating thickness of 0.10 mm and maximum coating thickness of 2.0 mm, with a maximum thickness tolerance of +/−0.20 mm, (4) characteristic 3 may or may not be encapsulated with a “Precision Drawn Tubing,” wall thicknesses less than 1.2mm, which is mechanically fixed in place, and (5) packaged in straight lengths, bent or formed and/or attached to hardware.
Also excluded from the scope are extruded tubing and drawn over a ID plug and through a OD die made from an aluminum alloy with the Aluminum Association series designation commencing with the number 3, 5, or 6 (or proprietary equivalents or other certifying body equivalents), including variants on individual alloying elements not to circumvent the other Aluminum Association series designations, which meet each of the following characteristics: (1) an outside mean diameter no greater than 30 mm with a tolerance less than or equal to +/−0.10 mm, (2) uniform wall thickness no greater than 2.7 mm with wall tolerances less than or equal to +/−0.1 mm, (3) may be coated with materials, including zinc, such that the coating material weight is no less than 3 g/m2 and no greater than 30 g/m2, and (4) packaged in continuous coils, straight lengths, bent or formed.
Also excluded from the scope of the investigation is certain rectangular wire, imported in bulk rolls or precut strips and produced from continuously cast rolled aluminum wire rod, which is subsequently extruded to dimension to form rectangular wire with or without rounded edges. The product is made from aluminum alloy grade 1070 or 1370 (not including proprietary equivalents or other certifying body equivalents), with no recycled metal content allowed. The dimensions of the wire are 2.95 mm to 6.05 mm in width, and 0.65 mm to 1.25 mm in thickness. Imports of rectangular wire are provided for under Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheadings 7605.19.0000, 7604.10.5000, or 7616.99.5190.
Also excluded from the scope of the antidumping and countervailing duty investigations on aluminum extrusions from the People's Republic of China are all products covered by the scope of the antidumping and countervailing duty orders on Aluminum Extrusions from the People's Republic of China.
See Aluminum Extrusions from the People's Republic of China: Antidumping Duty Order,76 FR 30,650 (May 26, 2011); and
Aluminum Extrusions from the People's Republic of China: Countervailing Duty Order,76 FR 30,653 (May 26, 2011) (collectively, Aluminum Extrusions from the People's Republic of China). Solely for the investigations on aluminum extrusions from the People's Republic of China, the following is an exhaustive list of products that meet the definition of subject merchandise. Merchandise that is not included in the following list that meets the definition of subject merchandise in the 2011 antidumping and countervailing duty orders on Aluminum Extrusions from the People's Republic of China remains subject to the earlier orders. No other section of this scope language that provides examples of subject merchandise is exhaustive. The following products are included in the scope of these investigations on aluminum extrusions from the People's Republic of China, whether assembled or unassembled: heat sinks as described above; cleaning system components like mops and poles; banner stands/back walls; fabric wall systems; drapery rails; side mount valve controls; water heater anodes; solar panel mounting systems; 5050 alloy rails for showers and carpets; auto heating and cooling system components; assembled motor cases with stators; louver assemblies; event décor; window wall units and parts; trade booths; micro channel heat exchangers; telescoping poles, pole handles, and pole attachments; flagpoles; wind sign frames; foreline hose assembly; electronics enclosures; parts and subassemblies for storefronts, including portal sets; light poles; air duct registers; outdoor sporting goods parts and subassemblies; glass refrigerator shelves; aluminum ramps; handicap ramp system parts and subassemblies; frames and parts for tents and clear span structures; parts and subassemblies for screen enclosures, patios, and sunrooms; parts and subassemblies for walkways and walkway covers; aluminum extrusions for LED lights; parts and subassemblies for screen, storm, and patio doors; pontoon boat parts and subassemblies, including rub rails, flooring, decking, transom structures, canopy systems, seating; boat hulls, framing, ladders, and transom structures; parts and subassemblies for docks, piers, boat lifts and mounting; recreational and boat trailer parts and subassemblies, including subframes, crossmembers, and gates; solar tracker assemblies with gears; garage door framing systems; door threshold and sill assemblies; highway and bridge signs; bridge, street, and highway rails; scaffolding, including planks and struts; railing and support systems; parts and subassemblies for exercise equipment; weatherstripping; door bottom and sweeps; door seals; floor transitions and trims; parts and subassemblies for modular walls and office furniture; truck trailer parts and subassemblies; boat cover poles, outrigger poles, and rod holders; bleachers and benches; parts and subassemblies for elevators, lifts, and dumbwaiters; parts and subassemblies for mirror and framing systems; window treatments; parts and subassemblies for air foils and fans; bus and RV window frames; sliding door rails; dock ladders; parts and subassemblies for RV frames and trailers; awning, canopy, and sunshade structures and their parts and subassemblies; marine motor mounts; linear lighting housings; and cluster mailbox systems.
Imports of the subject merchandise are primarily provided for under the following categories of the HTSUS: 7604.10.1000; 7604.10.3000; 7604.10.5000; 7604.21.0010; 7604.21.0090; 7604.29.1010; 7604.29.1090; 7604.29.3060; 7604.29.3090; 7604.29.5050; 7604.29.5090; 7608.10.0030; 7608.10.0090; 7608.20.0030; 7608.20.0090; 7609.00.0000; 7610.10.0010; 7610.10.0020; 7610.10.0030; 7610.90.0040; and 7610.90.0080.
Imports of the subject merchandise, including subject merchandise entered as parts of other products, may also be classifiable under the following additional HTSUS categories, as well as other HTSUS categories: 6603.90.8100; 7606.12.3091; 7606.12.3096; 7615.10.2015; 7615.10.2025; 7615.10.3015; 7615.10.3025; 7615.10.5020; 7615.10.5040; 7615.10.7125; 7615.10.7130; 7615.10.7155; 7615.10.7180; 7615.10.9100; 7615.20.0000; 7616.10.9090; 7616.99.1000; 7616.99.5130; 7616.99.5140; 7616.99.5190; 8302.10.3000; 8302.10.6030; 8302.10.6060; 8302.10.6090; 8302.20.0000; 8302.30.3010; 8302.30.3060; 8302.41.3000; 8302.41.6015;
( printed page 17399)
While HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes, the written description of the scope is dispositive.
Appendix II—List of Topics Discussed in the Preliminary Decision Memorandum
I. Summary
II. Background
III. Injury Test
IV. Analysis of China's Financial System
V. Diversification of China's Economy
VI. Use of Facts Otherwise Available and Adverse Inferences
VII. Subsidies Valuation
VIII. Benchmarks and Interest Rates
IX. Analysis of Programs
X. Recommendation
Footnotes
1.
See Aluminum Extrusions from the People's Republic of China, Indonesia, Mexico, and the Republic of Turkey: Initiation of Countervailing Duty Investigations,88 FR 74433 (October 31, 2023) (
Initiation Notice).
2.
See Aluminum Extrusions from the People's Republic of China, Indonesia, Mexico, and the Republic of Turkey: Postponement of Preliminary Determinations in the Countervailing Duty Investigations,88 FR 84788 (December 6, 2023).
3.
See
Memorandum, “Decision Memorandum for the Preliminary Affirmative Determination of the Countervailing Duty Investigation of Aluminum Extrusions from the People's Republic of China,” dated concurrently with, and hereby adopted by, this notice (Preliminary Decision Memorandum).
6.
The petitioners are the U.S. Aluminum Extruders Coalition (the members of which are Alexandria Extrusion Company; APEL Extrusions; Bonnell Aluminum; Brazeway; Custom Aluminum Products; Extrudex Aluminum; International Extrusions; Jordan Aluminum Company; M-D Building Products, Inc.; Merit Aluminum Corporation; MI Metals; Pennex Aluminum; Tower Extrusions; and Western Extrusions) and the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union.
8.
These products are: (1) fully assembled solar panels; (2) fully assembled off-grid solar charging modules; (3) aluminum and copper wires produced through a casting process; (4) stationary bicycles and rowing machines that enter unassembled as a packaged combination of parts to be assembled; (5) shower hooks and other articles made from cast aluminum, even where such cast aluminum is made from re-melted aluminum that had previously been extruded; and (6) precision non-electrically conductive coated buss bars and precision drawn aluminum tubing.
9.
See
Memorandum, “Antidumping Duty Investigations and Countervailing Duty Investigations of Aluminum Extrusions from People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Italy, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Taiwan, Thailand, the Republic of Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam: Preliminary Scope Decision Memorandum,” dated concurrently with this notice (Preliminary Scope Decision Memorandum).
10.
See
Petitioners' February 20, 2024 Submission. We are considering all the proposed revisions to the scope and have only highlighted a few examples of these proposed revisions.
13.
See
sections 771(5)(B) and (D) of the Act regarding financial contribution; section 771(5)(E) of the Act regarding benefit; and section 771(5A) of the Act regarding specificity.
15.
See
Petitioners' Letter, “Request to Align Countervailing Duty Investigation Final Determination with Antidumping Duty Investigation Final Determination,” dated February 13, 2024.
16.
See Aluminum Extrusions from the People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Italy, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Taiwan, Thailand, the Republic of Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam: Postponement of Preliminary Determinations in the Less-Than-Fair-Value Investigations,89 FR 11814 (February 15, 2024).
17.
Commerce also selected Suzhou Dayer Mechatronic Hi-Tech Co., Ltd. (Suzhou Dayer) as a mandatory company respondent in this investigation. Based on Suzhou Dayer's questionnaire responses, we preliminarily find that Suzhou Dayer did not produce merchandise subject to the scope of this investigation during the POI. Therefore, we are not calculating a subsidy rate for Suzhou Dayer. We intend to verify Suzhou Dayer's submissions to confirm that it did not produce subject merchandise.
See
Preliminary Decision Memorandum.
18.
As discussed in the Preliminary Decision Memorandum, Commerce has preliminarily found the following companies to be cross-owned with Sanhua, pursuant to 19 CFR 351.525(b)(6)(vi): Zhejiang Sanhua Intelligent Controls Co., Ltd.; Zhejiang Sanhua Automotive Components Co., Ltd.; Shaoxing Sanhua New Energy Automotive Components Co., Ltd.; Shaoxing Sanhua Automotive Thermal Management Technology Co., Ltd.; and Sanhua Heat Exchanger (Zhengzhou) Co., Ltd.
19.
See 19 CFR 351.309(d);
see also Administrative Protective Order, Service, and Other Procedures in Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Proceedings,88 FR 67069, 67077 (September 29, 2023) (
APO and Service Final Rule).