In a landmark 6 – 3 decision, the US Supreme Court held today that the President lacks authority to impose any tariffs under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA). 24-1287 Learning Resources, Inc. v. Trump (02/20/2026). The decision has sweeping implications for US importers and purchasers of US imported products as it effectively rules that all of the tariffs imposed under IEEPA are, and have been since inception, invalid.
Tariffs that are deemed invalid as a result of the decision include: 
    - Reciprocal tariffs: 10 percent (or higher for designated jurisdictions) tariffs imposed in April 2025 on all imports from most countries around the world.
- Fentanyl tariffs: tariffs (currently 10 percent on Chinese origin goods and 35 percent on certain Canadian origin goods and 25 percent on certain Mexican origin goods) in connection with the declared national emergency relating to fentanyl trafficking.
- Brazil IEEPA tariffs: 40 percent additional tariff imposed on Brazilian-origin goods in connection with the declared national emergency relating to the prosecution of Jair Bolsonaro and certain other perceived anti-democratic actions by Brazilian judicial authorities.
- India IEEPA tariffs: 25 percent additional tariffs imposed on Indian-origin items from August 6, 2025 to February 7, 2026 in response to India purchasing Russian-origin oil. Although these tariffs were rescinded as of February 7, 2026, the ruling establishes they were invalid as imposed, allowing for potential refunds of any such tariffs paid.
- Future threatened IEEPA tariffs: all future tariffs that have been threatened under IEEPA, including, for example, threatened tariffs on countries that engage in certain trade with Cuba and/or Iran, can no longer be imposed under IEEPA’s authority.
Remedies and potential refunds
The Supreme Court’s opinion resolves the statutory authority question, but, as expected, does not directly address remedies or the mechanics of potentially refunding previously collected duties. Justice Kavanaugh’s dissent did, however, reference the potential administrative disruption and fiscal consequences associated with refunding previously collected tariffs, noting the potential “mess” that may follow the Court’s decision.
Notably, the original decision of the Court of International Trade (CIT) that the Supreme Court affirmed included a nationwide permanent injunction vacating the IEEPA-based tariffs and barring the US government from enforcing or collecting them. Because the injunctive relief extended nationwide and was not limited to only named plaintiffs, today’s decision by the Supreme Court should allow for a remedy for all impacted importers, even if they are not a current party to the CIT litigation.
Although neither the Supreme Court opinion nor the CIT opinion specifies the remedies that should be provided to impacted importers, US law and long-standing legal precedent hold that any funds collected by the US Government based on tariffs that have been ruled invalid constitutes an illegal exaction which the government may not retain.
Accordingly, following the Supreme Court’s decision today, and per US Customs regulations, the US government no longer has any authority to continue collecting the tariffs and must, at least insofar as the importer has properly preserved its rights, refund any such tariff amounts already collected. Where entries have already liquidated, Customs may also be required to pay interest to importers in addition to the amount of invalid tariffs paid.
The exact mechanism for claiming such refunds, however, is left to the CIT and US Customs. In its earlier deliberations in the case, the CIT affirmed, and the US Government conceded, the CIT’s power to order the reliquidation of any entries where duties were paid on the now invalidated tariffs. Now that the Supreme Court has issued its opinion, the CIT is likely to issue such an order here, which would allow refunds on entries even if they have formally “closed” as a result of being liquidated. 
While the CIT is empowered to order particular administrative remedies for issuing refunds to importers, it is more likely to, as it has done in the past, leave such administrative procedures to US Customs to develop and implement. US Customs typically implements such procedures through formal guidance to importers either published in the Federal Register or through its Cargo Systems Messaging Service (CSMS). Such guidance usually entails directing importers to seek refunds by filing post-summary corrections (PSCs) for non-liquidated entries or protests for liquidated entries.
Given the magnitude of refunds at issue, it is possible the US Government will seek to challenge the issuance of refunds or at least limit their scope. Regardless, importers should expect substantial delays, potentially lasting years, before all such refunds are disbursed. Moreover, because the total amount of refunds will likely be in the hundreds of billions of dollars, Congress may choose to become involved and seek to legislatively impose certain timing and other restrictions on the issuance of such refunds.
It is important to note that the CIT and US Customs will be limited to issuing refunds to the importer of record who paid the now invalid tariffs at entry. No refunds will be issued by the government to parties who may have reimbursed the importer for tariffs paid on their behalf. In those instances, the reimbursing party will need to examine its agreements with the importer to see if it may be entitled to a refund of such tariffs, if and when received by the importer. 
In our experience, not all contracts, particularly those issued prior to the tariffs being imposed, specifically address refunds in the event applicable duties or tariffs are overturned which will likely result in significant disputes and litigation over refund obligations between contractual parties.
While we will have to wait to see what administrative refund process is established by the CIT and US Customs and whether the US Government challenges the decision or the administrative process, importers should, in the meantime, ensure they take steps to preserve their rights to a refund regardless of what process is established. In particular, importers should submit a PSC for unliquidated entries and a protest for liquidated entries seeking a refund of any invalid tariffs paid. If any request for a PSC or protest is denied by US Customs, then the importer should challenge the decisions by filing a complaint at the CIT.
Some importers are also proceeding straight to filing a claim at the CIT based on a belief that such litigation may be the more expedient way to seek refunds compared to waiting for the administrative process for refunds to run its course.
Parties should also assess current and pending contracts for tariff allocation clauses, price-adjustment mechanisms and change-in-law provisions to determine whether pricing adjustments or other actions are warranted.
Next steps from the Trump Administration
The Administration has already responded to the Supreme Court’s decision by announcing its intent to replace at least a portion of the now-invalidated IEEPA tariffs with a global 10 percent tariff on all imported goods pursuant to Section 122 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 USC §2132). Section 122 authorizes the President to impose temporary import surcharges or quotas to address large and serious balance-of-payments deficits. However, Section 122 authority is limited to 15 percent tariffs which may remain in effect for no more than 150 days unless Congress affirmatively extends the measure through a joint resolution. The statute also requires consultation with Congress and reporting to Congress, and measures are subject to termination or modification if Congress disapproves.
Given its limitations, Section 122 is undoubtedly only the first in what are likely to be a series of tariff measures implemented in response to the Supreme Court ruling. Other options available to the President include Section 338 of the Tariff Act of 1930 which authorizes the president to impose tariffs of up to 50 percent on imports from countries that have imposed unreasonable or discriminatory tariffs or trade barriers against US goods. The tariffs can be imposed without an extensive investigative process and there is no statutory limit on how long they can remain in place. Section 338 has not, however, ever been invoked and is believed to be vulnerable to judicial challenge on grounds that it is unconstitutionally vague and overbroad.
Other traditional tariff authorities, including Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 and Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, remain available to the Administration. However, those authorities require investigations, evidentiary findings, and formal rulemaking. As a practical matter, those statutory pathways take time to implement and cannot be deployed as an immediate replacement for the invalidated IEEPA tariffs.
We will have a much better understanding of the prospective tariff landscape in the coming weeks.
 
We are monitoring these developments closely and will issue additional updates as appropriate.