This site displays a prototype of a “Web 2.0” version of the daily
Federal Register. It is not an official legal edition of the Federal
Register, and does not replace the official print version or the official
electronic version on GPO’s govinfo.gov.
The documents posted on this site are XML renditions of published Federal
Register documents. Each document posted on the site includes a link to the
corresponding official PDF file on govinfo.gov. This prototype edition of the
daily Federal Register on FederalRegister.gov will remain an unofficial
informational resource until the Administrative Committee of the Federal
Register (ACFR) issues a regulation granting it official legal status.
For complete information about, and access to, our official publications
and services, go to
About the Federal Register
on NARA's archives.gov.
The OFR/GPO partnership is committed to presenting accurate and reliable
regulatory information on FederalRegister.gov with the objective of
establishing the XML-based Federal Register as an ACFR-sanctioned
publication in the future. While every effort has been made to ensure that
the material on FederalRegister.gov is accurately displayed, consistent with
the official SGML-based PDF version on govinfo.gov, those relying on it for
legal research should verify their results against an official edition of
the Federal Register. Until the ACFR grants it official status, the XML
rendition of the daily Federal Register on FederalRegister.gov does not
provide legal notice to the public or judicial notice to the courts.
Enter a search term or FR citation e.g.
88 FR 38230 FR 78782024-13208USDA09/05/24RULE0503-AA39SORN
Choosing an item from
full text search results
will bring you to those results. Pressing enter in the search box
will also bring you to search results.
Choosing an item from
suggestions
will bring you directly to the content.
This table of contents is a navigational tool, processed from the
headings within the legal text of Federal Register documents.
This repetition of headings to form internal navigation links
has no substantive legal effect.
Document page views are updated periodically throughout the day and are
cumulative counts for this document. Counts are subject to sampling,
reprocessing and revision (up or down) throughout the day.
Page views
456
as of
09/09/2026 at 12:15 pm EDT
Other Formats
Enhanced Content - Other Formats
This document is also available in the following formats:
This PDF is FR Doc. 2026-07468 as it appeared on Public Inspection on
04/15/2026 at 8:45 am.
It was viewed
14
times while on Public Inspection.
If you are using public inspection listings for legal research, you
should verify the contents of the documents against a final, official
edition of the Federal Register. Only official editions of the
Federal Register provide legal notice of publication to the public and judicial notice
to the courts under 44 U.S.C. 1503 & 1507.
Learn more here.
Published Document: 2026-07468 (91 FR 20405)
This document has been published in the Federal Register. Use the PDF linked in the document sidebar for the official electronic format.
AGENCY:
Enforcement and Compliance, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce.
SUMMARY:
The U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) determines that certain producers and/or exporters made sales of certain aluminum foil (aluminum foil) at less than normal value during the period of review (POR), April 1, 2023, through March 31, 2024.
DATES:
Applicable April 16, 2026.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Jacob Waddell, AD/CVD Operations, Office VI, Enforcement and Compliance, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230; telephone: (202) 482-1369.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Background
On August 5, 2025, Commerce published the
Preliminary Results
and invited interested parties to comment.[1]
Due to the lapse in appropriations and Federal Government Shutdown, on November 14, 2025, Commerce tolled all deadlines in administrative proceedings by 47 days,[2]
and, due to a backlog of documents that were electronically filed via Enforcement and Compliance's Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Centralized Electronic Service System (ACCESS) during the Federal Government shutdown, on November 24, 2025, Commerce tolled all deadlines in administrative proceedings by an additional 21 days.[3]
Between January 16, and April 1, 2026, Commerce extended the final results deadline by 60 days.[4]
On March 3, 2026, Commerce issued its post-preliminary analysis and invited interested parties to comment.[5]
For a full summary of the events that have occurred since the
Preliminary Results, see
the Issues and Decision Memorandum.[6]
The Issues and Decision Memorandum is a public document and is on file electronically via ACCESS. ACCESS is available to registered users at
https://access.trade.gov.
In addition, a complete version of the Issues and Decision Memorandum can be found at
https://access.trade.gov/public/FRNoticesListLayout.aspx.
Commerce conducted this review in accordance with section 751(a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act).
The merchandise covered by the
Order
is aluminum foil from China. For a complete description of the scope,
see
the Issues and Decision Memorandum.
Analysis of Comments Received
All issues raised in the case and rebuttal briefs are addressed in the Issues and Decision Memorandum and are listed in Appendix I.
Changes From the Preliminary Results
Based on our analysis of the comments received from interested parties, we made certain changes to the margin calculations for Dingsheng [8]
and
( printed page 20406)
[9]
For a discussion of these changes,
see
the Issues and Decision Memorandum.
Separate Rates
In the
Preliminary Results,
we determined that five companies demonstrated their eligibility for a separate rate.[10]
For these final results, we continue to determine that the five non-examined companies are eligible for a separate rate. No interested parties commented on our calculation of a separate rate in the
Preliminary Results.
Therefore, our methodology for calculating a separate rate remains the same as in the
Preliminary Results.[11]
China-Wide Entity
In accordance with Commerce's policy, the China-wide entity will not be under review unless a party specifically requests, or Commerce self-initiates, a review of the China-wide entity.[12]
Because no party requested a review of the China-wide entity, and Commerce did not self-initiate a review of the entity, the China-wide entity is not under review, and the weighted-average dumping margin for the China-wide entity (
i.e.,
105.80 percent) is not subject to change.[13]
As in the
Preliminary Results,
Because these five companies did not demonstrate their eligibility for a separate rate, we continue to find five companies to be part of the China-wide entity, and they will be subject to the China-wide entity rate.[14]
Final Results of Administrative Review
Commerce determines that the following estimated weighted-average dumping margins exist for the period April 1, 2023, through March 31, 2024:
Exporter
Weighted-
average
dumping
margin
(percent)
Jiangsu Dingsheng New Materials Joint-Stock Co., Ltd./Hangzhou Dingsheng Import&Export Co., Ltd./Dingsheng Aluminium Industries (Hong Kong) Trading Co., Limited/Hangzhou Teemful Aluminium Co., Ltd./Hangzhou Five Star Aluminium Co., Ltd./Inner Mongolia Liansheng New Energy Material Co., Ltd./Inner Mongolia Xinxing New Energy Material Co., Ltd./Dingheng New Materials Co., Ltd./Thai Ding Li New Materials Co., Ltd
Pursuant to 19 CFR 351.224(b), we intend to disclose to parties in this proceeding the calculations performed for these final results within five days of the publication of this notice in the
Federal Register
.
Assessment Rates
Commerce has determined, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries in this review, in accordance with section 751(a)(2)(C) of the Act and 19 CFR 351.212(b). We intend to issue assessment instructions to CBP no earlier than 35 days after the date of publication of these final results in the
Federal Register
. If a timely summons is filed at the U.S. Court of International Trade, the assessment instructions will direct CBP not to liquidate relevant entries until the time for parties to file a request for a statutory injunction has expired (
i.e.,
within 90 days of publication).
Where Dingsheng and Zhongji reported reliable entered values, we calculated importer- (or customer-) specific
ad valorem
rates by aggregating the dumping margins calculated for all U.S. sales to each importer (or customer) and dividing this amount by the total entered value of the sales to each importer (or customer).[15]
Where Commerce calculated a weighted-average dumping margin by dividing the total amount of dumping for reviewed sales to that party by the total sales quantity associated with those transactions, Commerce will direct CBP to assess importer- (or customer-) specific assessment rates based on the resulting per-unit rates.[16]
Where an importer- (or customer-) specific
ad valorem
or per-unit rate is greater than
de minimis
(
i.e.,
0.50 percent), Commerce will instruct CBP to collect the appropriate duties at the time of liquidation.[17]
Where an importer- (or customer-) specific
ad valorem
or per-unit rate is zero or
de minimis,
Commerce will instruct CBP to liquidate appropriate entries without regard to antidumping duties.[18]
Cash Deposit Requirements
The following cash deposit requirements will be effective upon publication of the final results of this review for shipments of the subject merchandise from China entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for
( printed page 20407)
Notification to Importers
This notice serves as a final reminder to importers of their responsibility under 19 CFR 351.402(f)(2) to file a certificate regarding the reimbursement of antidumping and/or countervailing duties prior to liquidation of the relevant entries during this review period. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in Commerce's presumption that reimbursement of antidumping and/or countervailing duties occurred and the subsequent assessment of double antidumping duties, and/or an increase in the amount of antidumping duties by the amount of the countervailing duties.
Administrative Protective Order (APO)
This notice also serves as a reminder to parties subject to an APO of their responsibility concerning the return or destruction of proprietary information disclosed under APO in accordance with 19 CFR 351.305, which continues to govern business proprietary information in this segment of the proceeding. Timely written notification of the return or destruction of APO materials, or conversion to judicial protective order, is hereby requested. Failure to comply with the regulations and terms of an APO is a violation which is subject to sanction.
Notification to Interested Parties
This determination is issued and published in accordance with sections 751(a) and 777(i)(1) of the Act and 19 CFR 351.221(b)(5).
Dated: April 13, 2026.
Christopher Abbott,
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and Negotiations, performing the non-exclusive functions and duties of the Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance.
Appendix I
List of Topics Discussed in the Issues and Decision Memorandum
I. Summary
II. Background
III. Scope of the
Order
IV. Changes Since the
Preliminary Results
V. Discussion of the Issues
Comment 1: Selection of Surrogate Country
Comment 2: Using Alternative Financial Ratios
Comment 3: Labor Surrogate Value
Comment 4: Water Surrogate Value
Comment 5: Valuation of Zhongji's Chalybeate Agent, Copper Agent, and Silicon Agent
Comment 6: Valuation of Zhongji's Rolling Oil and Rolling Oil Additive Factors of Production
Comment 7: Valuation of Dingsheng's By-Product Aluminum and Self-Produced Aluminum
Comment 8: Treatment of Zhongji's Commission Expenses
Comment 9: Conversion of Natural Gas Surrogate Value for Dingsheng and Zhongji
Comment 10: Issuance of Double Remedy Offset Questionnaire
VI. Recommendation
Appendix II
Companies Determined To Be Part of the China-Wide Entity
1. Dongwon Systems Corp.
2. Gränges Aluminum (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
3. Sama Aluminium Co Ltd.
4. Shanghai Shenhuo Aluminium Foil Co., Ltd.
5. Shanghai Shenyan Packaging Co., Ltd.
Footnotes
1.
See Certain Aluminum Foil from the People's Republic of China: Preliminary Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review; 2023-2024;90 FR 38449 (August 8, 2025) (
Preliminary Results), and accompanying Preliminary Decision Memorandum (PDM).
4.
See
Memorandum, “Extension of Deadline for Final Results of 2023-2024 Antidumping Duty Administrative Review,” dated January 16, 2026;
see also
Memorandum, “Extension of Deadline for Final Results of 2023-2024 Antidumping Duty Administrative Review,” dated April 1, 2026.
6.
See
Memorandum, “Issues and Decision Memorandum for the Final Results of the Antidumping Duty Administrative Review of Certain Aluminum Foil from the People's Republic of China; 2023-2024” dated concurrently with, and hereby adopted by, this notice (Issues and Decision Memorandum).
7.
See Certain Aluminum Foil from the People's Republic of China: Amended Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value and Antidumping Duty Order:83 FR 17362 (April 19, 2018) (
Order).
8.
Dingsheng, collectively, consists of Jiangsu Dinsheng New Materials Joint-Stock Co., Ltd.; Hangzhou Dingsheng Import&Export Co., Ltd.; Dingsheng Aluminium Industries (Hong Kong) Trading Co., Limited; Hangzhou Teemful
Aluminium Co., Ltd.; Hangzhou Five Star Aluminium co., Ltd.; Inner Mongolia Liansheng New Energy Material Co., Ltd.; InnerMongolia Xinxing New Energy Material Co., Ltd.; Dingheng New Materials Co., Ltd.; and Thai Ding Li New Materials Co., Ltd.
See
Memorandum, “Dingsheng Final Results Analysis Memorandum,” dated concurrently with this notice.
12.
See Antidumping Proceedings: Announcement of Change in Department Practice for Respondent Selection in Antidumping Duty Proceedings and Conditional Review of the Nonmarket Economy Entity in NME Antidumping Duty Proceedings,78 FR 65963, 65969-70 (November 4, 2013).