This site displays a prototype of a “Web 2.0” version of the daily
Federal Register. It is not an official legal edition of the Federal
Register, and does not replace the official print version or the official
electronic version on GPO’s govinfo.gov.
The documents posted on this site are XML renditions of published Federal
Register documents. Each document posted on the site includes a link to the
corresponding official PDF file on govinfo.gov. This prototype edition of the
daily Federal Register on FederalRegister.gov will remain an unofficial
informational resource until the Administrative Committee of the Federal
Register (ACFR) issues a regulation granting it official legal status.
For complete information about, and access to, our official publications
and services, go to
About the Federal Register
on NARA's archives.gov.
The OFR/GPO partnership is committed to presenting accurate and reliable
regulatory information on FederalRegister.gov with the objective of
establishing the XML-based Federal Register as an ACFR-sanctioned
publication in the future. While every effort has been made to ensure that
the material on FederalRegister.gov is accurately displayed, consistent with
the official SGML-based PDF version on govinfo.gov, those relying on it for
legal research should verify their results against an official edition of
the Federal Register. Until the ACFR grants it official status, the XML
rendition of the daily Federal Register on FederalRegister.gov does not
provide legal notice to the public or judicial notice to the courts.
Enter a search term or FR citation e.g.
88 FR 38230 FR 78782024-13208USDA09/05/24RULE0503-AA39SORN
Choosing an item from
full text search results
will bring you to those results. Pressing enter in the search box
will also bring you to search results.
Choosing an item from
suggestions
will bring you directly to the content.
Non-Oriented Electrical Steel From Sweden, Germany, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan and Japan: Final Results of the Expedited Second Sunset Reviews of the Antidumping Duty Orders
This table of contents is a navigational tool, processed from the
headings within the legal text of Federal Register documents.
This repetition of headings to form internal navigation links
has no substantive legal effect.
Document page views are updated periodically throughout the day and are
cumulative counts for this document. Counts are subject to sampling,
reprocessing and revision (up or down) throughout the day.
Page views
256
as of
09/09/2026 at 12:15 pm EDT
Other Formats
Enhanced Content - Other Formats
This document is also available in the following formats:
This PDF is FR Doc. 2026-07464 as it appeared on Public Inspection on
04/15/2026 at 8:45 am.
It was viewed
34
times while on Public Inspection.
If you are using public inspection listings for legal research, you
should verify the contents of the documents against a final, official
edition of the Federal Register. Only official editions of the
Federal Register provide legal notice of publication to the public and judicial notice
to the courts under 44 U.S.C. 1503 & 1507.
Learn more here.
Published Document: 2026-07464 (91 FR 20407)
This document has been published in the Federal Register. Use the PDF linked in the document sidebar for the official electronic format.
AGENCY:
Enforcement and Compliance, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce.
SUMMARY:
The U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) finds that revocation of the antidumping duty (AD) orders on non-oriented electrical steel (NOES) from Sweden, Germany, the People's Republic of China (China), the Republic of Korea (Korea), Taiwan, and Japan would be likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping, at the levels indicated in the “Final Results of Sunset Reviews” section of this notice.
DATES:
Applicable April 16, 2026.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
David De Falco, Trade Agreements Policy and Negotiations, Enforcement and Compliance, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230; telephone: (202) 482-2178.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Background
On December 3, 2014, Commerce published the
Orders
in the
Federal Register
.[1]
On December 1, 2025, Commerce published the notice of initiation of these second sunset reviews of the
Orders,
pursuant to section 751(c) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act), with an effective initiation date of November 3, 2025.[2]
On December 9 and 16, 2025, Commerce received timely and complete notices of intent to participate in these sunset reviews from the domestic interested parties [3]
within the deadline specified in the 19 CFR 351.218(d)(1)(i).[4]
The domestic
( printed page 20408)
[5]
On December 23, 2025, Commerce notified the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) that it had received notices of intent to participate from the domestic interested parties.[6]
On December 29 and 31, 2025, pursuant to 19 CFR 351.218(d)(3)(i), the domestic interested parties filed timely and adequate substantive responses.[7]
Commerce did not receive a substantive response from any respondent interested party. On January 23, 2026, Commerce notified the ITC that it did not receive substantive response from any respondent interested parties.[8]
As a result, pursuant to section 751(c)(3)(B) of the Act and 19 CFR 351.218(e)(1)(ii)(C)(2), Commerce is conducting expedited (120-day) sunset reviews of the
Orders.
Due to the lapse in appropriations and Federal Government shutdown, on November 14, 2025, Commerce tolled all deadlines in administrative proceedings by 47 days.[9]
Additionally, due to a backlog of documents that were electronically filed via Enforcement and Compliance's Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Centralized Electronic Service System (ACCESS) during the Federal Government shutdown, on November 24, 2025, Commerce tolled all deadlines in administrative proceedings by an additional 21 days.[10]
Accordingly, the deadline for these final results is now April 14, 2026.
Scope of the Orders
The product covered by these
Orders
is NOES from Sweden, Germany, China, Korea, Taiwan, and Japan. For the full description of the scope of the
Orders, see
the Issues and Decisions Memorandum.[11]
Analysis of Comments Received
A complete discussion of all issues raised in this sunset review, including the likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping in the event of revocation of the
Orders
and the magnitude of the margins likely to prevail if the
Orders
were to be revoked, is provided in the Issues and Decision Memorandum.[12]
A list of the topics discussed in the Issues and Decision Memorandum is attached in the appendix to this notice. The Issues and Decision Memorandum is a public document and is on file electronically via ACCESS. ACCESS is available to registered users at
https://access.trade.gov.
In addition, a complete version of the Issues and Decision Memorandum can be directly accessed at
https://access.trade.gov/public/FRNoticesListLayout.aspx.
Final Results of Sunset Reviews
Pursuant to sections 751(c)(1), and 752(c)(1) and (3) of the Act, Commerce determines that revocation of the
Orders
would be likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping, and that the magnitude of the dumping margins likely to prevail would be weighted-average dumping margins up to 126.72 percent for Sweden, 98.84 percent for Germany, 407.52 percent for China, 6.88 percent for Korea, 52.23 percent for Taiwan, and 204.79 percent for Japan.
Notification Regarding Administrative Protective Order (APO)
This notice also serves as the only reminder to parties subject to an APO of their responsibility concerning the return or destruction of proprietary information disclosed under APO in accordance with 19 CFR 351.305. Timely notification of the return or destruction of APO materials, or conversion to judicial protective, orders is hereby requested. Failure to comply with the regulations and terms of an APO is a violation which is subject to sanction.
Notification to Interested Parties
We are issuing and publishing these final results in accordance with sections 751(c), 752(c), and 777(i)(1) of the Act, and 19 CFR 351.218 and 19 CFR 351.221(c)(5)(ii).
Dated: April 14, 2026.
Scot Fullerton,
Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Operations.
Appendix
List of Topics Discussed in the Issues and Decision Memorandum
I. Summary
II. Background
III. Scope of the
Orders
IV. History of the
Orders
V. Legal Framework
VI. Discussion of the Issues
1. Likelihood of Continuation or Recurrence of Dumping
2. Magnitude of the Margins of Dumping Likely to Prevail
VII. Final Results of Sunset Reviews
VIII. Recommendation
Footnotes
1.
See Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from the People's Republic of China, Germany, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Sweden, and Taiwan: Antidumping Duty Orders,79 FR 71741 (December 3, 2014) (
Orders).
3.
The domestic interested parties are Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. (Cleveland-Cliffs) and United States Steel Corporation (U.S. Steel) (collectively, the domestic interested parties).
4.
See
Cleveland-Cliffs' Letter, “Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review Of Antidumping & Countervailing Duty Orders On Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from the People's Republic of China, Germany, Japan, Republic of Korea, Sweden, and Taiwan: Notice Of Intent To Participate In Sunset Reviews,” dated December 9, 2025;
see also
U.S. Steel's Letters, “Second Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Sweden: Notice of Intent to Participate,” “Second Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Germany: Notice of Intent to Participate,” “Second Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Orders on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from China: Notice of Intent to Participate,” ”Second Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from South Korea: Notice of Intent to Participate,” “Second Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Orders on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Taiwan: Notice of Intent to Participate,” and “Second Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented
Electrical Steel from Japan: Notice of Intent to Participate,” all dated December 16, 2025.
7.
See
Cleveland-Cliffs' Letter, “Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Sweden: Domestic Interested Party Substantive Response,” dated December 29, 2025; U.S. Steel's Letter, “Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Sweden: Substantive Response of United States Steel Corporation to Commerce's Notice of Initiation of Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review,” dated December 31, 2025; Cleveland-Cliffs' Letter, “Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Germany: Domestic Interested Party Substantive Response,” dated December 29, 2025; U.S. Steel's Letter, “Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Germany: Substantive Response of United States Steel Corporation to Commerce's Notice of Initiation of Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review,” dated December 31, 2025; Cleveland-Cliffs' Letter, “Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from China: Domestic Interested Party Substantive Response,” dated December 29, 2025; U.S. Steel's Letter, “Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from China: Substantive Response of United States Steel Corporation to Commerce's Notice of Initiation of Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review,” dated December 31, 2025; Cleveland-Cliffs' Letter, “Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Korea: Domestic Interested Party Substantive Response,” dated December 29, 2025; U.S. Steel's Letter, “Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Korea: Substantive Response of United States Steel Corporation to Commerce's Notice of Initiation of Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review,” dated December 31, 2025; Cleveland-Cliffs' Letter, “Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Taiwan: Domestic Interested Party Substantive Response,” dated December 29, 2025; U.S. Steel's Letter, “Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Taiwan: Substantive Response of United States Steel Corporation to Commerce's Notice of Initiation of Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review,” dated December 31, 2025; Cleveland-Cliffs' Letter, “Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review of Antidumping Duty Order on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Japan: Domestic Interested Party Substantive Response,” dated December 29, 2025; and U.S. Steel's Letter, “Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Japan: Substantive Response of United States Steel Corporation to Commerce's Notice of Initiation of Five-Year (“Sunset”) Review,” dated December 31, 2025.
11.
See
Memorandum, “Issues and Decision Memorandum for the Final Results of the Expedited Second Sunset Reviews of the Antidumping Duty Orders on Non-Oriented Electrical Steel from Sweden, Germany, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan, and Japan,” dated concurrently with, and hereby adopted by, this notice (Issues and Decision Memorandum).