Title: CROSS Ruling
N321561: The tariff classification of electric drive motors from Japan. Choose an option Alt text (alternative text) helps when people can’t see the image or when it doesn’t load. Edit alt text (image description). This alt text was created automatically and may be inaccurate.Learn more. Downloading alt text AI model (0 of 0 MB). Suggests descriptions to help people who can’t see the image or when the image doesn’t load.Learn more. Alt text AI model (180MB). Required for automatic alt text. Show alt text editor right away when adding an image. Helps you make sure all your images have alt text. Mitsubishi Electric Automotive America, Inc. RE:The tariff classification of electric drive motors from Japan. In your letter dated September 14, 2021, you requested a tariff classification ruling. You state that the five motors are all similar in construction and function, having a maximum rated output of either 475 Watts or 477 Watts and are intended for use in steering systems of consumer and commercial vehicles. In your letter, you state that the MCUs receive 12VDC electricity directly from the vehicle and the internal inverter converts the DC electricity to usable AC for the motor’s operation. We would note that the classification of electric motors is dependent upon many factors, such as the type of electricity applied to the motor and/or the maximum power output, as measured in Watts, for example. In our view, the type of electricity that is applied to a motor’s stator determines what type of motor it is for classification purposes. As such, we are of the opinion that the MCUs under consideration here are AC motors because that is the type of electricity that produces the rotation. The applicable subheading for the subject MCUs will be 8501.51.4040, HTSUS, which provides for “Electric motors and generators (excluding generating sets): Other AC motors, multi-phase: Of an output not exceeding 750 W: Exceeding 74.6 W but not exceeding 735W: Other”. The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are provided on the World Wide Web at https://hts.usitc.gov/current. A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be provided with the entry documents filed at the time this merchandise is imported.