[Page 1]
U.S. Customs and Border Protection
◆
NOTICE OF ISSUANCE OF FINAL DETERMINATION
CONCERNING UPANELS LED DISPLAY PANELS
AGENCY: U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of
Homeland Security.
ACTION: Notice of ﬁnal determination.
SUMMARY: This document provides notice that U.S. Customs and
Border Protection (CBP) has issued a ﬁnal determination concerning
the country of origin of various models of LED display panels sold
under the UPanelS brand. Based upon the facts presented, CBP has
concluded in the ﬁnal determination that the components of the
subject UPanelS devices undergo substantial transformation in Tai-
wan upon the manufacture of their printed circuit board assembly
(PCBA) and light-emitting diode (LED) lamp assembly.
DATES: The ﬁnal determination was issued on June 10, 2024. A
copy of the ﬁnal determination is attached. Any party-at-interest,
as deﬁned in 19 CFR 177.22(d), may seek judicial review of this
ﬁnal determination within July 15, 2024.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Austen Walsh,
Valuation and Special Programs Branch, Regulations and Rulings,
Office of Trade, at austen.m.walsh@cbp.dhs.gov.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Notice is hereby given
that on June 10, 2024, CBP issued a ﬁnal determination
concerning the country of origin of various models of LED display
panels sold under the UPanelS brand for purposes of title III of the
Trade Agreements Act of 1979. This ﬁnal determination, HQ
H332752, was issued at the request Unilumin USA LLC
(Unilumin), under procedures set forth at 19 CFR part 177,
subpart B, which implements Title III of the Trade Agreements Act
of 1979, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2511–18). In the ﬁnal
determination, CBP has concluded that, based upon the facts
presented, the components, which are largely sourced from China
and Taiwan, are substantially transformed in Taiwan when made
into the subject UPanelS devices.
1

[Page 2]
Section 177.29, CBP Regulations (19 CFR 177.29), provides that
notice of ﬁnal determinations shall be published in the Federal
Register within 60 days of the date the ﬁnal determination is issued.
Section 177.30, CBP Regulations (19 CFR 177.30), provides that any
party-at-interest, as deﬁned in 19 CFR 177.22(d), may seek judicial
review of a ﬁnal determination within 30 days of publication of such
determination in the Federal Register.
ALICE A. KIPEL,
Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings,
Office of Trade.
2 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 3]
HQ H332752
June 10, 2024
OT:RR:CTF:VS H332752 AMW
CATEGORY: Origin
MS. ANGELICA TSAKIRIDIS
MANAGING DIRECTOR—G LOBAL TRADE ADVISORY DELOITTE LLP
555 MISSION STREET, SUITE 1400
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105
RE: U.S. Government Procurement; Title III, Trade Agreements Act of 1979
(19 U.S.C. 251
1); Subpart B, Part 177, CBP Regulations; Country of Origin of
UPanelS Products
DEAR MS. TSAKIRIDIS:
This is in response to your request, dated September 8, 2021, on behalf of
your client, Unilumin USA 
LLC (‘‘Unilumin’’), for a ﬁnal determination con-
cerning the country of origin of the ‘‘UPanelS’’ product line of light-emitting
diode (‘‘LED’’) display panels, pursuant to Title III of the Trade Agreements
Act of 1979 (‘‘TAA’’), as amended (19 U.S.C. 2511 et seq.), and subpart B of
Part 177, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (‘‘CBP’’) Regulations (19 CFR
177.21, et seq.). Your request, submitted as an electronic ruling request, was
forwarded to this office from the National Commodity Specialist Division.
Unilumin is a party-at-interest within the meaning of 19 CFR 177.22(d)(1)
and 177.23(a) and is therefore entitled to request this ﬁnal determination.
FACTS
Unilumin imports various models of ‘‘high-performance [LED] display[s]’’
sold under the UPanelS product line. The UPanelS product line consists of a
series of display units capable of producing high-deﬁnition video or photo-
graphic images dif
ferentiated primarily by pixel pitch. The UPanelS devices
are used in commercial and educational settings as signage or digital dis-
plays, including in large format settings such as concert backdrops or ﬁlm
sets.1 UPanelS devices are capable of being affixed directly into a wall mount,
displayed free standing, or hung with hanging beams. 2
Each UPanelS consists of two major sub-assemblies: a ‘‘module board’’ and
a ‘‘cabinet housing.’’ The module board drives and controls each LED unit,
forming images for display. The cabinet encases the device and provides the
power supply function.
The module board is assembled in Taiwan and is comprised of two subas-
semblies that are also assembled in Taiwan: (1) the main printed circuit
board assembly (‘‘PCBA’’) with LED lamps; and (2) the HUB board and
receiver card. The main PCBA with LED lamps consists of the main PCBA,
which regulates the ﬂow of power to the LED lamps; and the LED lamps
(originating in Taiwan), which light to form viewable images. The HUB board
and receiver cards assembly consists of the HUB board, a separate PCBA
printed in China that relays information between the receiver card and
module board; a receiver card (originating in either Taiwan or Romania),
which reads programmed command signals regulating the brightness and
1 See ‘‘What makes a successful interactive LED wall,’’ available at https://www.unilumin-
usa.com/led-101/what-makes-a-successful-interactive-led-wall/ (accessed Jan. 8, 2024).
2 UPanelS Product guide, available at https://www.unilumin-usa.com/wp-content/
uploads/2020/02/upanels-1.pdf (accessed Jan. 8, 2024).
3  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 4]
color of the LEDs and sequencing the display; and the indicator light board
(originating in Taiwan), which displays power supply indicators to the LED
lamps.
Assembly of the main PCBA with LED lamps occurs in Taiwan over ap-
proximately 12 steps, which involve the creation of the PCBA 
via surface
mount technology (‘‘SMT’’) and the placement of LED lamps onto the non-
printed side of the PCBA:
1. Mount handling ﬁxture to the integrated circuit (‘‘IC’’) side of a Chinese-
origin bare printed circuit board (‘
‘PCB’’);
2. Print components onto the PCB;
3. Inspect solder paste;
4. Mount remaining miscellaneous components onto PCB;
5. Cure the board in reﬂow oven;
6. Remove ﬁxture(s) mounted to the IC side of the PCB in step one and
mount a ﬁxture to the LED side;
7. Print onto the reverse side of the PCB;
8. Inspect solder paste;
9. Mount components;
10. Cure the board in a reﬂow oven;
11. Apply conformal coating on PCB;
12. Install gasket onto PCB.
Next, assembly of the HUB board and receiver card occurs in the following
steps:
1. Paste installation stickers to a lower/ bottom shell (the ‘‘turtle shell’’) and
blacken the bottom with a pen;
2. Insert the receiver card into the HUB board and place the HUB board
into the bottom of the turtle shell;
3.Divide the indicator light board into several smaller boards, affix the
indicator lights, and connect them with the module board adapter;
4. Paste and scan serial number; and
5. Install the HUB board assembly on the turtle shell and check for ﬂatness
and gaps.
The fully assembled PCBA with LED lamps is then combined with the
HUB board and receiver card assembly to form the completed module board.
Once combined, the LED lamps can light and display video or photographic
images.
The cabinet is the second major subassembly of the completed UPanelS.
The cabinet houses the module board and provides the power supply to the
ﬁnished device. The cabinet also enables the combination of multiple module
boards to create larger
-format arrays ( e.g., 4x4 or 2x1 conﬁgurations). The
cabinet is comprised almost entirely of Chinese-origin components, and con-
tains the following sub-assemblies: power supply adapter board, power sup-
ply, motor assembly, power signal combination connector, and wall controller.
The cabinet is assembled in Taiwan in approximately six steps:
1. Affix the power cables to the cabinet;
2. Affix the lacing strip, three core cables, and ground cables to the cabinet;
3. Affix the adapter board to the cabinet;
4. Assemble left and right-side motor and assemble cables with electric
screwdriver;
5. Connect internet cables to the power supply adapter board; and
6. Fit the insulating gasket on the power supply cover and affix the power
supply cover
.
4 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 5]
Once the module board and cabinet are completed, they are shipped to
China where they are combined into a complete UPanelS unit and tested for
functionality. Afterwards, the UPanelS is disassembled and separately pack-
aged for shipment to the United States.
Each UPanelS will be imported into the United States in one of two ways:
(1) the UPanelS’
s ﬁnished module board and cabinet are imported as two
separately packaged, unique product numbers entered in the same shipment;
or (2) the module board and cabinet are entered in the same shipment as
separately packaged products along with a separate ‘‘wall controller unit.’’3
You state that the UpanelS is imported in an unassembled condition because
the ﬁnished module board and cabinet are delicate and that shipping the
components in a single box may damage the panels. To aid installation in the
United States, each module board or cabinet will be assigned a serial number
or code allowing for the recombination of each module board with its corre-
sponding cabinet.
ISSUE
What is the country of origin of the Unilumin UPanelS for purposes of U.S.
Government procurement?
LAW AND ANALYSIS
CBP issues country of origin advisory rulings and ﬁnal determinations as
to whether an article is or would be a product of a designated country or
instrumentality for the purposes of granting waivers of certain ‘
‘Buy Ameri-
can’’ restrictions in U.S. law or practice for products offered for sale to the
U.S. Government, pursuant to subpart B of Part 177, 19 CFR 177.21–177.31,
which implements Title III of the TAA, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2511–2518).
CBP’s authority to issue advisory rulings and ﬁnal determinations is set
forth in 19 U.S.C. 2515(b)(1), which states:
For the purposes of this subchapter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall
provide for the prompt issuance of advisory rulings and ﬁnal determinations
on whether
, under section 2518(4)(B) of this title, an article is or would be a
product of a foreign country or instrumentality designated pursuant to section
2511(b) of this title.
Emphasis added.
The Secretary of the Treasury’s authority mentioned above, along with
other customs revenue functions, are delegated to CBP 
in the Appendix to 19
CFR part 0—Treasury Department Order No. 100–16, 68 FR 28,322 (May 23,
2003).
The rule of origin set forth under 19 U.S.C. 2518(4)(B) states:
An article is a product of a country or instrumentality only if (i) it is wholly
the growth, product, or manufacture of that country or instrumentality, or (ii)
in the case of an article which consists in whole or in part of materials from
another country or instrumentality, it has been substantially transformed
into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use
distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was so transformed.
3 According to the request, the wall controller unit is a third sub-module that, when
connected to the UPanelS, receives data signals from a source and translates and transmits
those signals to the receiver card component of the module board. When fully assembled,
the UPanelS connects to the wall controller via a category 5 cable. The wall controller unit
will originate in Germany, Taiwan, or the United States.
5  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 6]
See also 19 CFR 177.22(a).
In rendering advisory rulings and ﬁnal determinations for purposes of U.S.
Government procurement, CBP applies the provisions of subpart B of Part
177 consistent with the Federal Procurement Regulation (‘‘FAR’’). See 19 CFR
177.21. In this regard, CBP recognizes that the FAR restricts the U.S. Gov-
ernment’s purchase of products to U.S.-made or designated country end
products for acquisitions subject to the TAA. See 48 CFR 25.403(c)(1).
The FAR, 48 CFR 25.003, deﬁnes ‘‘designated country end product’’ as:
a WTO GPA [World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agree-
ment] country end product, an FTA [Free Trade Agreement] country end
product, a least developed country end product, or a Caribbean Basin country
end product.
Section 25.003 deﬁnes ‘‘WTO GPA country end product’’ as an article that:
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a WTO GPA country;
or
(2) In the case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in a WTO GPA
country into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character,
or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was trans-
formed. The term refers to a product offered for purchase under a supply
contract, but for purposes of calculating the value of the end product includes
services (except transportation services) incidental to the article, provided
that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the article
itself.
Once again, we note that the subject UPanelS devices are assembled in
Taiwan, a TAA-designated country, with components sourced from TAA-
designated countries ( e.g., Taiwan, Japan) and non-TAA-designated coun-
tries (e.g., China).
In determining whether a substantial transformation occurs, CBP consid-
ers the totality of the circumstances and makes such determinations on a
case-by-case basis. The country of origin of the item’s components, extent of
the processing that occurs within a country, and whether such processing
renders a product with a new name, character, and use are primary consid-
erations in such cases. Additionally, CBP considers factors such as the re-
sources expended on product design and development, the extent and nature
of post-assembly inspection and testing procedures, and worker skill required
during the actual manufacturing process when determining whether a sub-
stantial transformation has occurred. No one factor is determinative.
Assembly operations that are minimal or simple, as opposed to complex or
meaningful, will generally not result in a substantial transformation. Factors
which may be relevant in this evaluation include the nature of the operation
(including the number of components assembled), the number of different
operations involved, and whether a signiﬁcant period of time, skill, detail,
and quality control are necessary for the assembly operation. See C.S.D.
80–111, C.S.D. 85–25, C.S.D. 89–110, C.S.D. 89–118, C.S.D. 90–51, and
C.S.D. 90–97. If the manufacturing or combining process is a minor one,
which leaves the identity of the article intact, a substantial transformation
has not occurred. See Uniroyal, Inc. v. United States, 3 CIT 220, 542 F. Supp.
1026 (1982), aff’d, 702 F.2d 1022 (Fed. Cir. 1983) (imported shoe uppers added
to an outer sole in the United States were the ‘‘very essence of the ﬁnished
shoe’’ and the character of the product remained unchanged and did not
undergo substantial transformation in the United States).
6 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 7]
The Court of International Trade (‘‘CIT’’) more recently interpreted the
meaning of ‘‘substantial transformation’’ in Energizer Battery, Inc. v. United
States, 190 F. Supp. 3d 1308 (2016). Energizer involved the determination of
the country of origin of a ﬂashlight, referred to as the Generation II ﬂash-
light. All the components of the ﬂashlight were of Chinese origin, except for
a white LED and a hydrogen getter. The components were imported into the
United States and assembled into the ﬁnished Generation II ﬂashlight. The
Energizer court reviewed the ‘‘name, character and use’’ test utilized in
determining whether a substantial transformation had occurred and noted,
citing Uniroyal, Inc., 3 C.I.T. at 226, that when ‘‘the post-importation pro-
cessing consists of assembly, courts have been reluctant to ﬁnd a change in
character, particularly when the imported articles do not undergo a physical
change.’’ Energizer at 1318. In addition, the court noted that ‘‘when the
end-use was pre-determined at the time of importation, courts have generally
not found a change in use.’’ Energizer at 1319, citing as an example, National
Hand Tool Corp.
In reaching its decision, the Energizer court expressed the question as one
of whether the imported components retained their names after they were
assembled into the ﬁnished Generation II ﬂashlights. The court found ‘‘[t]he
constitutive components of the Generation II ﬂashlight do not lose their
individual names as a result [of] the post-importation assembly.’’ The court
also found that the components had a predetermined end-use as parts and
components of a Generation II ﬂashlight at the time of importation and did
not undergo a change in use due to the post-importation assembly process.
Finally, the court did not ﬁnd the assembly process to be sufficiently complex
as to constitute a substantial transformation. Thus, the court found that
Energizer’s imported components did not undergo a change in name, char-
acter, or use as a result of the post-importation assembly into a ﬁnished
Generation II ﬂashlight. Virtually all of the components of the Generation II
ﬂashlight, including the most important component, the LED, were of Chi-
nese origin. Accordingly, the court determined that China was the correct
country of origin of the Generation II ﬂashlights for purposes of government
procurement.
The CIT has also looked at the character of an article to determine whether
its identity has been substantially transformed through assembly or process-
ing. For example, in Uniroyal, Inc. v. United States, 3 C.I.T. at 225, the court
held that imported shoe uppers added to an outer sole in the United States
were the ‘‘very essence of the ﬁnished shoe’’ and thus the character of the
product remained unchanged and did not undergo substantial transforma-
tion in the United States. Similarly, in National Juice Products Association v.
United States, 10 C.I.T. 48, 61, 628 F. Supp. 978, 991 (1986), the court held
that imported orange juice concentrate ‘‘imparts the essential character’’ to
the completed orange juice and thus was not substantially transformed into
a product of the United States.
As CBP examines the totality of circumstances in its substantial transfor-
mation analysis, considerations such as the origin of a light source or a
PCBA, while not determinative, may be considered together with the nature
of the overall assembly operations. For example, in Headquarters Ruling
Letter (‘‘HQ’’) H304910, dated April 21, 2020, CBP determined the country of
origin of three models of LED automotive lamps to be Mexico, the country in
which the PCBA and LED lights were assembled together. For all three
models, CBP determined that the assembly of the Japanese-origin LEDs and
7  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 8]
the Mexican-origin PCBAs in Mexico resulted in a substantial transforma-
tion. CBP determined that the SMT and wave soldering processes incorpo-
rated a large number of discrete parts onto a printed circuit board, which was
a sufficiently ‘‘complex and meaningful’’ operation so as to result in a sub-
stantial transformation of the parts making up the product’s PCBA. In that
case, LEDs were one of the discrete components incorporated into the PCBA.
See also, HQ H331515, dated December 6, 2023 (citing HQ H304910 in
determining the country of origin of a refrigerator shelf light, which included
a PCBA and an LED light system, to be Mexico, the country of origin for the
light’s PCBA); and C.S.D. 85–25, 19 Cust. Bull. 544 (1985) (ﬁnding assembly
of more than 50 components onto PCB results in substantial transformation).
CBP has also determined the origin of image or video-producing devices to
be the country in which the underlying PCBA is produced. In HQ H218360,
dated September 11, 2013, CBP considered the origin of devices used to
‘‘capture motion picture images and sound and send them digitally . . . to a
similar unit at a different location. . . .’’ In that matter, we found that the
origin of the devices was the country in which the underlying ‘‘video process-
ing electronic circuit board’’ and ‘‘network ﬁlter electronic circuit board’’ were
produced because these items imparted the character of the devices as a video
conferencing server. See also HQ H114395, dated May 18, 2011 (determining
the country of origin of a pocket projector to be the location of assembly of the
light engine module and PCBA).
In the present matter, and in accordance with HQ H304910 and H218360,
the assembly of the main PCBA in Taiwan results in a substantial transfor-
mation. We ﬁnd that the SMT and curing processes incorporate a large
number of discrete component parts onto a PCB, which is a sufficiently
complex and meaningful operation so as to result in a substantial transfor-
mation of the parts making up the PCBA. Similar to HQ H331515, a variety
of electronic components are added to the raw PCB via SMT in Taiwan to
create the subject PCBAs. This includes the attachment of the Taiwanese-
origin LED lamps. Of particular importance, we also note that it is the PCBA
that enables the device to distribute power to the LED lamps and therefore
imparts the character of the subject device. In addition, the Taiwanese-origin
LED lamps also perform the important function of displaying the images to
be viewed. Furthermore, we ﬁnd that the processing in China, which consists
of ‘‘installing’’ and ‘‘attaching’’ the subassemblies together for testing, is not
sufficiently complex and meaningful to result in a substantial transforma-
tion. Based on the information provided, we therefore conclude that the
processing in Taiwan results in a product with a new name, character, and
use, i.e., an LED device capable of forming and displaying images.
Finally, as outlined above, after ﬁnal assembly in China, each UPanelS
unit will be separated into the module board, cabinet, and sometimes a wall
controller unit for shipment to the United States. Here, we note that, al-
though the devices will be disassembled for shipment, the components will
nevertheless represent a single item of commerce if shipped together. See HQ
H100055, dated May 28, 2010 (ﬁnding a medical patient lift imported unas-
sembled to be a single unit for country of origin purposes when shipped
together).
Based on the analysis above, we ﬁnd that the country of origin of the
subject UPanelS devices is Taiwan and, therefore, the devices would be the
product of a foreign country or instrumentality designated pursuant to 19
U.S.C. 2511(b)(1).
8 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 9]
HOLDING
Based on the facts and analysis set forth above, the country of origin of the
instant UPanelS will be Taiwan.
Notice of this ﬁnal determination will be given in the Federal Register, as
required by 19 CFR 177.29. Any party-at-interest other than the party which
requested this ﬁnal determination may request, pursuant to 19 CFR 177.31,
that CBP reexamine the matter anew and issue a new ﬁnal determination.
Pursuant to 19 CFR 177.30, any party-at-interest may, within 30 days of
publication of the Federal Register Notice referenced above, seek judicial
review of this ﬁnal determination before the U.S. Court of International
Trade.
Sincerely,
ALICE A. KIPEL,
Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings,
Office of Trade.
9  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 10]
NOTICE OF ISSUANCE OF FINAL DETERMINATION
CONCERNING THERMAL PRINTERS
AGENCY: U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of
Homeland Security.
ACTION: Notice of ﬁnal determination.
SUMMARY: This document provides notice that U.S. Customs and
Border Protection (CBP) has issued a ﬁnal determination concerning
the country of origin of ﬁve models of thermal printers. Based upon
the facts presented, CBP has concluded in the ﬁnal determination
that the components of the subject thermal printers do not undergo
substantial transformation in Japan when made into the ﬁnal ther-
mal printer units.
DATES: The ﬁnal determination was issued on June 10, 2024. A
copy of the ﬁnal determination is attached. Any party-at-interest,
as deﬁned in 19 CFR 177.22(d), may seek judicial review of this
ﬁnal determination within July 15, 2024.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Austen Walsh,
Valuation and Special Programs Branch, Regulations and Rulings,
Office of Trade, at (202) 325–0114.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Notice is hereby given
that on June 10, 2023, CBP issued a ﬁnal determination
concerning the country of origin of ﬁve models of thermal printers
for purposes of Title III of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979. This
ﬁnal determination, HQ H328859, was issued at the request of
Brother Mobile Solutions, Inc. (‘‘Brother’’), under procedures set
forth at 19 CFR part 177, subpart B, which implements Title III of
the Trade Agreements Act of 1979, as amended (19 U.S.C.
2511–18). In the ﬁnal determination, CBP has concluded that,
based upon the facts presented, the components, which are largely
sourced from China, are not substantially transformed in Japan
when made into the subject thermal printers.
Section 177.29, CBP Regulations (19 CFR 177.29), provides that
notice of ﬁnal determinations shall be published in the Federal
Register within 60 days of the date the ﬁnal determination is issued.
Section 177.30, CBP Regulations (19 CFR 177.30), provides that any
party-at-interest, as deﬁned in 19 CFR 177.22(d), may seek judicial
review of a ﬁnal determination within 30 days of publication of such
determination in the Federal Register.
ALICE A. KIPEL,
Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings,
Office of Trade.
10 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 11]
HQ H328859
June 10, 2024
OT:RR:CTF:VS H328859 AMW
CATEGORY: Origin
MR. RICK VAN ARNAM, ESQ.
BARNES, RICHARDSON & COLBURN, LLP
100 WILLIAM STREET
SUITE 305
NEW YORK, NY 10038
RE: U.S. Government Procurement; Title III, Trade Agreements Act of 1979
(19 U.S.C. 2511); Subpart B, Part 177; Brother Mobile Solutions, Inc.; Coun-
try of Origin of Mobile Thermal Printers; Substantial Transformation
DEAR MR. VAN ARNAM:
This is in response to your request of November 14, 2022, on behalf of your
client, Brother Mobile Solutions, Inc. (‘‘Brother’’), for a ﬁnal determination
concerning the country of origin of various thermal printer models, pursuant
to Title III of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (‘‘TAA’’), as amended (19
U.S.C. 2511 et seq.), and subpart B of Part 177, U.S. Customs and Border
Protection (‘‘CBP’’) Regulations (19 CFR 177.21, et seq.). Brother is a party-
at-interest within the meaning of 19 CFR 177.22(d)(1) and 177.23(a) and is
therefore entitled to request this ﬁnal determination.
FACTS
Brother seeks a country of origin determination related to ﬁve separate
models of thermal printers described as the ‘‘Brother PocketJet 8 Mobile
Thermal Printers’’ (the ‘‘thermal printers’’). Your request states that the
assembly process for the thermal printers is the same, though the devices
differ in type of interface ( i.e., USB, Bluetooth, or Wi-Fi) and resolution
(either ‘‘standard resolution’’ at 203 dots per inch (‘‘DPI’’) or ‘‘high resolution’’
at 300 dots per inch). The ﬁve models are as follows:
Model Interface Resolution
PJ–822 ................. USB ..................................................... 203 DPI.
PJ–823 ................. USB ..................................................... 300 DPI.
PJ–862 ................. USB, Bluetooth ................................... 203 DPI.
PJ–863 ................. USB, Bluetooth ................................... 300 DPI.
PJ–883 ................. USB, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi  ....................... 300 DPI.
The thermal printers provide full-page mobile printing, producing text or
images by passing specially treated paper ( i.e., thermal paper) over a ‘‘print
head’’ comprised of a small, electrically heated element. Upon exposure to
heat, the coating on the paper turns black, producing the desired text or
image. The thermal printers connect with most computer models, including
IOS and Android devices.
The thermal printers will undergo ﬁnal assembly in Japan by Mie Brother
Precision Industries, Ltd. (‘‘Mie Brother’’) utilizing discrete components im-
ported from Taiwan, Vietnam, and China, as well as a Japanese-origin
printed circuit board assembly (‘‘PCBA’’). As outlined in your request, the
thermal printers consist of four main component groupings:
11  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 12]
(1) Print Mechanism
The print mechanism utilizes direct thermal technology to apply heat to
the treated paper and produce text and images. The print mechanism is
comprised of approximately 48 components, including a chassis assembly,
head spring, gears, thermal plate, paper guide, screws, and a stepping motor
used to move paper through the print mechanism. The print mechanism is
comprised entirely of Chinese-origin components (aside from the Taiwanese-
origin stepping motor), which are assembled into the thermal printers in
Japan.
(2) Covers/Chassis
The covers and chassis are static items that make up the chassis of the
thermal printers. They are comprised of approximately 59 components, in-
cluding a top cover, back cover chute cover, battery latches, face tape, and
various labels and screws. Each of these components is produced in China
and are assembled into the printers in Japan.
(3) Sensor Unit
The sensor unit consists of ﬁve components: a Vietnam-produced mem-
brane switch, which functions as an operator interface, allowing the user to
operate and control the device. The remaining components, including ﬂexible
printed circuits that control the printer’s on/off switch, its LED indicator, and
a radio circuit (Bluetooth vs. WiFi in model PJ 863), are all produced in China
and assembled into the printers in Japan.
(4) Main PCBA
The main PCBA is produced by a third-party manufacturer in Japan. The
PCBA includes the device’s ﬁrmware, and functions as the motherboard of
the printer. It controls communication with the device looking to print ( i.e.,
computer or phone), houses the memory for the printer, and forms the image
to be printed.
In addition to the physical components described above, you state that the
device’s ﬁrmware is designed and developed in Japan. The ﬁrmware consists
of software embedded into the PCBA that will control the device.
All told, your request indicates that slightly more than half of the printers’
value, is attributable to production occurring in China. Slightly less than half
of the printers’ value is produced in Japan. Less than 10% by value is
produced in Vietnam and in Taiwan. By quantity, approximately 97% of all
components are produced in China, whereas 1% of the printers’ components
are produced in Japan, 1% in Taiwan, and 1% in Vietnam.
You state that the ﬁnal assembly of the above-mentioned components
occurs in Japan. Speciﬁcally, your request indicates that assembly in Japan
occurs in roughly the following steps:
Mainframe Assembly
In this stage, the main PCBA is mounted to the main chassis assembly.
Then, the stepping motor is attached to the chassis, and the print mechanism
components are affixed. Next, the side and upper chassis boards are attached
to the main frame, as are three head pressing springs. The platen and
transfer gears are added. Finally, the chute cover is attached to this frame.
12 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 13]
Cover Assembly
Next, the cover assembly is created. The components of the sensor unit—
the membrane switch, LED lamp, and various ﬂexible printed circuits, are
assembled to the top cover. The back cover is then attached, followed by the
top cover and then the latches. All cover screws are tightened. A dummy
battery is inserted, and a label is affixed on the bottom of the cover.
After assembly is complete, the thermal printers undergo a testing process
in which the machines receive a function test, printing inspection, Wi-Fi/
Bluetooth check, and appearance inspection.
ISSUE
What is the country of origin of the subject thermal printers for purposes of
U.S. Government procurement?
LAW AND ANALYSIS
CBP issues country of origin advisory rulings and ﬁnal determinations as
to whether an article is or would be a product of a designated country or
instrumentality for the purpose of granting waivers of certain ‘‘Buy Ameri-
can’’ restrictions in U.S. law or practice for products offered for sale to the
U.S. Government, pursuant to subpart B of Part 177, 19 CFR 177.21 et seq.,
which implements Title III, Trade Agreements Act of 1979, as amended (19
U.S.C. 2511–2518).
CBP’s authority to issue advisory rulings and ﬁnal determinations is set
forth in 19 U.S.C. 2515(b)(1), which states:
For the purposes of this subchapter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall
provide for the prompt issuance of advisory rulings and ﬁnal determinations
on whether, under section 2518(4)(B) of this title, an article is or would be a
product of a foreign country or instrumentality designated pursuant to sec-
tion 2511(b) of this title. 1
The rule of origin set forth in 19 U.S.C. 2518(4)(B) states:
An article is a product of a country or instrumentality only if (i) it is wholly
the growth, product, or manufacture of that country or instrumentality, or (ii)
in the case of an article which consists in whole or in part of materials from
another country or instrumentality, it has been substantially transformed
into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character, or use
distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was so transformed.
See also 19 CFR 177.22(a).
In rendering advisory rulings and ﬁnal determinations for purposes of U.S.
Government procurement, CBP applies the provisions of subpart B of Part
177 consistent with the Federal Acquisition Regulations (‘‘FAR’’). See 19 CFR
177.21. In this regard, CBP recognizes that the FAR restricts the U.S. Gov-
ernment’s purchase of products to U.S.-made or designated country end
products for acquisitions subject to the TAA. See 48 CFR 25.403(c)(1).
Section 25.003 deﬁnes ‘‘designated country end product’’ as:
1 The Secretary of the Treasury’s authority mentioned above, along with other customs
revenue functions, are delegated to CBP in the Appendix to 19 CFR part 0—Treasury
Department Order No. 100–16, 68 FR 28322 (May 23, 2003).
13  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 14]
a WTO GPA [World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agree-
ment] country end product, an FTA [Free Trade Agreement] country end
product, a least developed country end product, or a Caribbean Basin country
end product.
Section 25.003 deﬁnes ‘‘WTO GPA country end product’’ as an article that:
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a WTO GPA country;
or
(2) In the case of an article that consists in whole or in part of materials
from another country, has been substantially transformed in a WTO GPA
country into a new and different article of commerce with a name, character,
or use distinct from that of the article or articles from which it was trans-
formed. The term refers to a product offered for purchase under a supply
contract, but for purposes of calculating the value of the end product includes
services (except transportation services) incidental to the article, provided
that the value of those incidental services does not exceed that of the article
itself.
Once again, we note that the subject thermal printers are assembled in
Japan, a WTO GPA country, with components sourced from both TAA-
designated countries (i.e., Taiwan and Japan) as well as non-TAA countries
(i.e., China, Vietnam).
In order to determine whether a substantial transformation occurs when
components of various origins are assembled into completed products, CBP
considers the totality of the circumstances and makes such determinations on
a case-by-case basis. The country of origin of the item’s components, extent of
the processing that occurs within a country, and whether such processing
renders a product with a new name, character, and use are primary consid-
erations in such cases. Additionally, factors such as the resources expended
on product design and development, the extent and nature of post-assembly
inspection and testing procedures, and worker skill required during the
actual manufacturing process will be considered when determining whether
a substantial transformation has occurred. No one factor is determinative.
A new and different article of commerce is an article that has undergone a
change in commercial designation or identity, fundamental character, or
commercial use. A determinative issue is the extent of the operations per-
formed and whether the materials lose their identity and become an integral
part of the new article. See Nat’l Hand Tool Corp. v. United States, 16 CIT 308
(1992), aff’d, 989 F.2d 1201 (Fed. Cir. 1993). ‘‘For courts to ﬁnd a change in
character, there often needs to be a substantial alteration in the character-
istics of the article or components.’’ Energizer Battery, Inc. v. United States,
190 F. Supp. 3d 1308, 1318 (Ct. Int’l Trade 2016) (citations omitted). Courts
have looked to ‘‘the essence’’ or essential character of the completed article ‘‘to
determine whether it has undergone a change in character as a result of
post-importation processing.’’ Id. (citing Uniroyal, Inc. v. United States, 542 F.
Supp. 1026 (Ct. Int’l Trade 1982), aff’d, 702 F.2d 1022 (Fed. Cir. 1983)). In
Uniroyal, 542 F. Supp. at 1030, the U.S. Court of International Trade (‘‘CIT’’)
held that ‘‘it would be misleading to allow the public to believe that a shoe is
made in the United States when the entire upper—which is the very essence
of the completed shoe—is made in Indonesia and the only step in the manu-
facturing process performed in the United States is the attachment of an
outsole.’’
In Energizer Battery, Inc. v. United States, 190 F. Supp. 3d 1308 (2016), the
CIT interpreted the meaning of the term ‘‘substantial transformation’’ as
14 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 15]
used in the TAA for purposes of government procurement. Energizer Battery
involved the determination of the country of origin of a ﬂashlight, referred to
as the Generation II ﬂashlight, under the TAA. All the components of the
Generation II ﬂashlight were of Chinese origin, except for a white LED and
a hydrogen getter. The components were imported into the United States
where they were assembled into the ﬁnished Generation II ﬂashlight.
The Energizer Battery court reviewed the ‘‘name, character and use’’ test in
determining whether a substantial transformation had occurred and re-
viewed various court decisions involving substantial transformation deter-
minations. The court noted, citing Uniroyal, that when ‘‘the post-importation
processing consists of assembly, courts have been reluctant to ﬁnd a change
in character, particularly when the imported articles do not undergo a physi-
cal change.’’ Energizer at 1318. In addition, the court noted that ‘‘when the
end-use was pre-determined at the time of importation, courts have generally
not found a change in use.’’ Energizer Battery at 1319, citing as an example,
National Hand Tool. Furthermore, courts have considered the nature of the
assembly, i.e., whether it is a simple assembly or more complex, such that
individual parts lose their separate identities and become integral parts of a
new article.
In reaching its decision in the Energizer Battery case, the court expressed
the question as one of whether the imported components retained their
names after they were assembled into the ﬁnished Generation II ﬂashlights.
The court found ‘‘[t]he constitutive components of the Generation II ﬂashlight
do not lose their individual names as a result [of] the post-importation
assembly.’’ The court also found that the components had a pre-determined
end-use as parts and components of a Generation II ﬂashlight at the time of
importation and did not undergo a change in use due to the post-importation
assembly process. Finally, the court did not ﬁnd the assembly process to be
sufficiently complex as to constitute a substantial transformation. Thus, the
court found that Energizer’s imported components did not undergo a change
in name, character, or use because of the post-importation assembly of the
components into a ﬁnished Generation II ﬂashlight. The court determined
that China, the source of all but two components, was the correct country of
origin of the ﬁnished Generation II ﬂashlights under the government pro-
curement provisions of the TAA.
In this matter, counsel argues that the country of origin of the subject
thermal printers will be Japan because: (1) the ﬁnal assembly of the various
components occurs in Japan, and all components undergo a substantial
transformation when assembled into the thermal printers; (2) the main
PCBA is produced in Japan, which functions as the ‘‘brains’’ of the device and
therefore imparts the essential character; and (3) the device’s ﬁrmware is
designed, developed, and embedded in Japan. In doing so, the request cites
Headquarters Ruling Letter (HQ) H298653, dated November 19, 2018; HQ
H241146, dated May 21, 2013; and HQ H185775, dated December 21, 2011.
In HQ H298653, CBP considered the country of origin of solar panels that
were assembled in China using both Chinese and non-Chinese components,
including polycrystalline solar cells that were entirely manufactured in Ger-
many. CBP determined that polycrystalline solar cells, which imparted the
essential character of the ﬁnished panels, did not lose their identity and
became an integral part of the solar panels when they were combined with
other components during the processing in China. The end-use of the solar
cells and other components was pre-determined before the components were
15  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 16]
imported into China, and the solar cells (and other components) remained
solar cells during processing in China. Therefore, CBP found that the country
of origin of the solar panels was Germany. We note, however, that HQ
H298653 pertains to solar panels, which is a completely different product
class from the subject merchandise, and that does not include a PCBA,
ﬁrmware, or similar components to the subject merchandise.
In HQ H241146, CBP considered the country of origin of monochrome laser
printers. In that case, Chinese-origin subassemblies were imported into the
United States, where they were assembled with U.S.-origin PCBs, and pro-
grammed with Japanese-origin ﬁrmware. While the printers were comprised
of subassemblies and components from various countries, they were also
comprised of a controller unit assembled in the United States (with U.S.-
origin PCBs), which was important to the function of the printers. As a result,
CBP found that the last substantial transformation occurred in the United
States.
In HQ H185775, CBP considered the country of origin of a multifunction
office machine. In that case, the incomplete print engine was produced in
Vietnam and consisted of a metal frame, plastic skins, motors, controller
board with supplier-provided ﬁrmware, a laser scanning system, paper trays,
cabling paper transport rollers, and miscellaneous sensing and imaging sys-
tems. The incomplete print engine was shipped to Mexico, where the follow-
ing assemblies were added: the formatter board, scanner/automatic docu-
ment feeder, control panel, fax card, hard disk drive/solid state drive,
ﬁrmware (which was developed and written in the United States), along with
other minor components and accessories. CBP determined that Mexico was
the country of origin because the assembly of the various nonfunctioning
assemblies and components, along with the addition of ﬁrmware and pro-
gramming, resulted in a substantial transformation.
In addition to the rulings cited in Brother’s request, we identiﬁed several
additional relevant rulings, as follows: HQ H304677, dated April 21, 2023;
HQ H301910, date August 5, 2019; HQ H287548, dated March 23, 2018; HQ
H219519, dated April 3, 2013; and HQ H018467, dated January 4, 2008. The
applicability of each ruling is discussed below.
In HQ H304677, CBP considered the country of origin of various models of
multi-and single-function printers that underwent ﬁnal assembly in Mexico.
Most of the components for the printers were assembled in China to create
subassemblies referred to as ‘‘printer transports,’’ which consisted of the basic
housing and associated structures ( e.g., frames, covers, laser scanning unit,
power supply unit). The units’ PCBAs were manufactured in Mexico via
surface mount and pin through hole technology. The devices’ ﬁrmware was
downloaded in Mexico, but was architected and designed in the United
States, with support from an entity in the Philippines. In determining the
country of origin to be China, CBP noted that the Mexican-origin PCBA did
not serve as the only fundamental functioning component of the printers, but
that the other Chinese-origin components also proved critical in enabling the
units to perform their function, including feeding the paper and printing
images onto the paper.
In HQ H301910, CBP considered the country of origin of mailing machine
engines used in certain postage meters. In that ruling, the body of the engine
was assembled in China and then transported to Japan where the Japanese-
origin PCBA, print head, and print control and diagnostic ﬁrmware were
installed. Testing and packaging also occurred in Japan. CBP determined
16 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 17]
that the main PCBA, the print control ﬁrmware, and the print head consti-
tuted the primary and fundamental essence of the mailing machine engine
because these components controlled the engine’s function, operations, and
enabled the printing of the correct postage. In particular, the main PCBA
itself was composed of components essential to the fundamental function and
primary purpose of the engine including the CPU, the memory, and the
Field-Programmable Gate Array—all of which combined to form the ‘‘brain’’
of the machine. CBP held that, inasmuch as the main PCBA, the print control
ﬁrmware, and the print head were all produced in Japan, the country of
origin of the mailing engine machine was Japan.
In HQ H287548, CBP determined that the country of origin of a mono-
chrome laser printer was Japan despite having component parts sourced
from several countries and where the ﬁnal assembly took place in the United
States. In HQ H287548, the main PCB and ﬁrmware were produced in
Japan, while the fuser unit, automated document feeder unit, photo conduc-
tor, toner cartridge, operation panel, and body unit were all assembled in
Vietnam from components sourced from a variety of countries, including the
Philippines, Vietnam, and China. CBP determined that the Japanese-origin
PCB and ﬁrmware imparted the essential character of the laser printer
because the ﬁrmware provided the control program for the printers and
enabled the main PCB assembly to function as the electronic ‘‘brains’’ of the
printers by controlling all printer functions. Moreover, the production of the
feeder unit, fuser unit, photo conductor, toner cartridge and operation panel
occurring in Vietnam was inexpensive and did not require a sophisticated
skill set to effect production. Likewise, the ﬁnal manufacturing in the United
States was concluded in 40 minutes (including testing), which did not rise to
the level of complex processes necessary for a substantial transformation to
occur.
In HQ H219519, CBP considered the country of origin of a laser jet printer
and fax machine made up of Chinese parts that was assembled in Mexico.
The laser jet printer/fax machine was composed of a print engine, motors,
control board (with ﬁrmware), paper trays, rollers, transfer belt, formatted
printed circuit boards, and other components. CBP determined that the
assembly in Mexico was not complex or signiﬁcant enough to result in a
substantial transformation, rendering the country of origin as China. CBP
explained that the assembly in Mexico did not change or deﬁne the use of the
ﬁnished laser jet printer/fax machine. CBP considered the amount of time to
complete the ﬁnal assembly of the product. In one scenario, the timeframe to
complete the assembly was three to four minutes. In the second scenario, it
took seven to eight minutes and in a third scenario assembly was completed
within two to three minutes. Meanwhile, the complexity, time and skill
involved in producing the Chinese-origin controller board (with ﬁrmware),
printed circuit boards, print engine and the remaining components exceeded
the simplistic assembly that took place in Mexico. Finally, CBP reasoned that
since the print engine was the central mechanism by which the printer/fax
machine performed its printing and because the controller board and PCB
were the central command components that determined when and how the
machines were to function, these components combined to impart the essen-
tial character of the overall printer/fax machine.
Finally, in HQ H018467, CBP considered two manufacturing scenarios for
multi-function printers. In one scenario, manufacturing took place in two
countries; in the other, it took place in three countries. In the two-country
17  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 18]
scenario, 18 units were manufactured in the Philippines from components
produced in various countries. The units were sent to Japan where the
system control board, engine control board, organic photoconductor (‘‘OPC’’)
drum unit, and the toner reservoir were manufactured and incorporated into
the units. The control boards were programmed in Japan with Japanese
ﬁrmware that controlled the user interface, imaging, memories, and the
mechanics of the machines. The machines were then inspected and adjusted
as necessary. CBP found that the manufacturing operations in Japan sub-
stantially transformed the Philippine units such that Japan was the country
of origin. In making the determination (and in addition to the ﬁnding that
operations performed in Japan were meaningful and complex and resulted in
an article of commerce with a new name, character and use), CBP considered
the fact that the system control board, the engine control board, and the
ﬁrmware, which were very important to the functionality of the machines,
were manufactured in Japan.
The relevant judicial precedent and CBP rulings indicate that the compo-
nent (or components) that imparts the character of a product will be a
signiﬁcant factor in determining the country of origin of a product. This
matter is most like HQ H304677, in which we determined that certain printer
units assembled in Mexico from various Chinese-origin components, a
Mexican-origin PCBA, and U.S.-origin ﬁrmware to be of China origin. As in
HQ H304677, we ﬁnd that the subject PCBA does not serve as the only
fundamental functioning component of the thermal printers. Although the
PCBA and Japanese-origin ﬁrmware enable the thermal printers to commu-
nicate with external devices and process the images to be printed, the other
components and assemblies are also critical in enabling the printer to form
text or images and apply heat to the paper to create text or images. For
instance, the Chinese-origin print head physically applies heat to the treated
paper to produce an image. Likewise, a Chinese-origin ﬂexible PCBA controls
each printer’s on/off function, and a Chinese-origin radio circuit also facili-
tates the device’s communication with external devices. See also, HQ
H301910, supra (noting PCBA, print head, and ﬁrmware are all essential to
a printer’s function). This matter is further distinguishable from HQ
H287548 in which we determined that that the Japanese-origin PCBA and
ﬁrmware conferred the essential character of a printer that was assembled in
the United States from components sourced from a variety of countries,
including Japan, the Philippines, China, and Vietnam (where many of the
foreign-origin components were assembled into discrete subassemblies). In
the present matter, by contrast, the largest portion of both cost and compo-
nents used in producing the subject thermal printers is imparted by the
Chinese-origin components.
This matter is also distinguishable from HQ H018467 (which was decided
before Energizer Battery ) in which CBP determined, in relevant part, the
country of certain multi-function printers to be Japan where Philippine-
origin subassemblies manufactured from components produced in various
countries were combined in Japan with Japanese-origin system control
board, engine control board, OPC drum unit, toner reservoir and ﬁrmware. In
ﬁnding the country of origin to be Japan, CBP also found the assembly
operations occurring in Japan to be complex and meaningful. In contrast to
HQ H018467, here, although the PCBA and ﬁrmware originated in Japan as
in HQ H018467, the subject thermal printers contained no other components
originating in Japan; instead, as noted above, the overwhelming majority,
18 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 19]
approximately 97%, of components, originated in China. Furthermore, and
again unlike in HQ H018467, the assembly operations occurring in Japan are
not complex or meaningful. Instead, outside of the PCBA assembly, the
Japanese assembly process consists of simple steps such as mounting, at-
taching, ﬁtting, and screwing the imported components together. See also,
HQ H219519 (ﬁnding ﬁnal assembly in Mexico not complex or meaningful).
Therefore, as with HQ H304677, we ﬁnd the present scenario is analogous to
Uniroyal and Energizer Battery where the imported material did not undergo
a substantial transformation. While Uniroyal did not go into detail concern-
ing the manufacture and contribution of the sole to the shoe, the decision
recognized that it was the manufacture of the upper, just like the many
Chinese printer components here, that provided the character to the ﬁnished
article. Similarly, we ﬁnd that the mechanical printing functions are im-
parted by the Chinese-origin components.
Based on the foregoing, we ﬁnd that the country of origin of the subject
thermal printers is China and, therefore, would not be products of a foreign
country or instrumentality designated pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2511(b)(1).
HOLDING
Based on the facts and analysis set forth above, the country of origin of the
instant thermal printers will be China.
Notice of this ﬁnal determination will be given in the Federal Register, as
required by 19 CFR 177.29. Any party-at-interest other than the party which
requested this ﬁnal determination may request, pursuant to 19 CFR 177.31,
that CBP reexamine the matter anew and issue a new ﬁnal determination.
Pursuant to 19 CFR 177.30, any party-at-interest may, within 30 days of
publication of the Federal Register Notice referenced above, seek judicial
review of this ﬁnal determination before the U.S. Court of International
Trade.
Sincerely,
ALICE A. KIPEL,
Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings,
Office of Trade.
19  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 20]
PROPOSED MODIFICATION OF FOUR RULING LETTERS,
PROPOSED REVOCATION OF FOUR RULING LETTERS,
AND REVOCATION OF TREATMENT RELATING TO THE
TARIFF CLASSIFICATION OF CERTAIN COMPOSITE
GOODS WITH THE ESSENTIAL CHARACTER OF
PERMANENT MAGNETS
AGENCY: U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of
Homeland Security.
ACTION: Notice of proposed modiﬁcation of four ruling letters, pro-
posed modiﬁcation of four ruling letters, and proposed revocation of
treatment relating to the tariff classiﬁcation of certain composite
goods with the essential character of permanent magnets.
SUMMARY: Pursuant to section 625(c), Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C.
§ 1625(c)), as amended by section 623 of title VI (Customs Modern-
ization) of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementa-
tion Act (Pub. L. 103–182, 107 Stat. 2057), this notice advises inter-
ested parties that U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) intends
to modify four ruling letters and revoke four rulings letters, all of
which concern the tariff classiﬁcation of composite goods with the
essential character of permanent magnets under the Harmonized
Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). Similarly, CBP intends
to revoke any treatment previously accorded by CBP to substantially
identical transactions. Comments on the correctness of the proposed
actions are invited.
DATE: Comments must be received on or before August 2, 2024.
ADDRESS: Written comments are to be addressed to U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, Office of Trade, Regulations and
Rulings, Attention: Shannon Stillwell, Commercial and Trade
Facilitation Division, 90 K St., NE, 10th Floor, Washington, DC
20229–1177. CBP is also allowing commenters to submit electronic
comments to the following email address:
1625Comments@cbp.dhs.gov. All comments should reference the
title of the proposed notice at issue and the Customs Bulletin
volume, number, and date of publication. Arrangements to inspect
submitted comments should be made in advance by calling Ms.
Shannon Stillwell at (202) 325–0739.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael F.
Thompson, Electronics, Machinery, Automotive, and International
Nomenclature Branch, Regulations and Rulings, Office of Trade, at
(202) 325–1917.
20 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 21]
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 
BACKGROUND
Current customs law includes two key concepts: informed compli-
ance and shared responsibility. Accordingly, the law imposes an obli-
gation on CBP to provide the public with information concerning the
trade community’s responsibilities and rights under the customs and
related laws. In addition, both the public and CBP share responsibil-
ity in carrying out import requirements. For example, under section
484 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. § 1484), the
importer of record is responsible for using reasonable care to enter,
classify and value imported merchandise, and to provide any other
information necessary to enable CBP to properly assess duties, collect
accurate statistics, and determine whether any other applicable legal
requirement is met.
Pursuant to 19 U.S.C. § 1625(c)(1), this notice advises interested
parties that CBP is proposing to modify or revoke eight ruling letters
pertaining to the tariff classiﬁcation of merchandise the essential
character of which is imparted by permanent magnets. Although in
this notice, CBP is speciﬁcally referring to New York Ruling Letter
(“NY”) J85077, NY N302039, NY N302895, NY N314064, NY B84458,
NY R03088, NY N289369, and NY N290319 (Attachments A through
H), this notice also covers any rulings on this merchandise which may
exist but have not been speciﬁcally identiﬁed. CBP has undertaken
reasonable efforts to search existing databases for rulings in addition
to the one identiﬁed. No further rulings have been found. Any party
who has received an interpretive ruling or decision (i.e., a ruling
letter, internal advice memorandum or decision, or protest review
decision) on the merchandise subject to this notice should advise CBP
during the comment period.
Similarly, pursuant to 19 U.S.C. § 1625(c)(2), CBP is proposing to
revoke any treatment previously accorded by CBP to substantially
identical transactions. Any person involved in substantially identical
transactions should advise CBP during this comment period. An
importer’s failure to advise CBP of substantially identical transac-
tions or of a speciﬁc ruling not identiﬁed in this notice may raise
issues of reasonable care on the part of the importer or its agents for
importations of merchandise subsequent to the effective date of the
ﬁnal decision on this notice.
In NY J85077, NY N302039, NY N302895, and NY N314064, CBP
classiﬁed the subject merchandise under subheading 8505.19, HT-
SUS, which provides for “Electromagnets; permanent magnets and
articles intended to become permanent magnets after magnetization;
21  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 22]
electromagnetic or permanent magnet chucks, clamps and similar
holding devices; electromagnetic couplings, clutches and brakes; elec-
tromagnetic lifting heads; parts thereof: Other.” In NY B84458, NY
R03088, NY N289369, and NY N290319, CBP classiﬁed the subject
merchandise under subheading 8505.11, HTSUS, which provides for
“Electromagnets; permanent magnets and articles intended to be-
come permanent magnets after magnetization; electromagnetic or
permanent magnet chucks, clamps and similar holding devices; elec-
tromagnetic couplings, clutches and brakes; electromagnetic lifting
heads; parts thereof: Of metal.” CBP has reviewed NY J85077, NY
N302039, NY N302895, NY N314064, NY B84458, NY R03088, NY
N289369, and NY N290319 and has determined the ruling letters to
be in error. It is now CBP’s position that composite goods with the
essential character of permanent magnets of materials other than
metal are properly classiﬁed, in heading 8505, HTSUS, speciﬁcally in
subheading 8505.19.30, HTSUS, which provides for “Electromagnets;
permanent magnets and articles intended to become permanent mag-
nets after magnetization; electromagnetic or permanent magnet
chucks, clamps and similar holding devices; electromagnetic cou-
plings, clutches and brakes; electromagnetic lifting heads; parts
thereof: Permanent magnets and articles intended to become perma-
nent magnets after magnetization: Other: Other.”
Pursuant to 19 U.S.C. § 1625(c)(1), CBP is proposing to modify NY
J85077, NY N302039, NY N302895, and NY N314064, and revoke NY
B84458, NY R03088, NY N289369, and NY N290319, and revoke or
modify any other ruling not speciﬁcally identiﬁed to reﬂect the analy-
sis contained in the proposed Headquarters Ruling Letter (“HQ”)
H328977, set forth as Attachment I to this notice. Additionally, pur-
suant to 19 U.S.C. § 1625(c)(2), CBP is proposing to revoke any
treatment previously accorded by CBP to substantially identical
transactions.
Before taking this action, consideration will be given to any written
comments timely received.
GREGORY CONNOR
for
YULIY A A. GULIS,
Director
Commercial and Trade Facilitation Division
Attachments
22 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 23]
ATTACHMENT A
NY J85077
June 19, 2003
CLA-2–84:RR:NC:1:102 J85077
CATEGORY: Classiﬁcation
TARIFF NO.: 8481.80.3070, 7012.00.00,
8505.11.00, 7318.24.00, 3926.90.4510,
4016.93.5010
MS. SHELLEY VYBIRAL
SNAP-TITE INC.
8325 HESSINGER DR.
ERIE, PA 16509
RE: The tariff classiﬁcation of parts for stirred reactors of unspeciﬁed origin
DEAR MS. VYBIRAL:
In your letter dated May 15, 2003 you requested a tariff classiﬁcation
ruling on behalf of Snap-tite Inc.
The articles in question are described as a sample/addition valve kit, part
numbers MCLAVE10X1SAMP and MCLAVE10X10SAMP and a spares part
kit, part number MCLAVE10XSPARES. Descriptive information and
samples were submitted.
The valve kits consist of a tee ﬁtting, tubing, full-port ball valve and a
septum mounting assembly. The contents of the kit are packaged together as
a set and provide all the components necessary to install a septum onto a
reactor. One kit includes the components for a singe reactor, while the other
includes components for ten reactors. The septum allows for the addition or
removal of material to and from the reactor vessel. Based on the information
submitted we ﬁnd that the kit is classiﬁable as a set and that ball valve
imparts the essential character to the set. We also assume for the purpose of
this ruling that the valve body is made of stainless steel.
The spare parts kit includes 20 glass liners, 20 stirrer bars, which are
essentially Teﬂon-coated magnets, 10 Viton o-rings, 10 EPDM o-rings, 4 snap
rings for jack screws, and 5 snap rings for vessels. Here we ﬁnd that the spare
parts kit is not classiﬁable as a set because it includes a variety of spare parts
that are not intended to be used together for any one speciﬁc purpose.
Accordingly, each of the items included in the kit shall be separately classi-
ﬁed.
The applicable subheading for the valve kit, if presented with a valve of
stainless steel, will be 8481.80.3070, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
United States (HTSUS), which provides for ball type, hand-operated valves of
steel. The general rate of duty will be 5.6 percent ad valorem.
The applicable subheading for the glass liners will be 7012.00.00, HTSUS,
which provides for glass inners for vacuum ﬂasks or other vacuum vessels.
The general rate of duty will be 6.6 percent ad valorem.
The applicable subheading for the stirrer bars will be 8505.11.00, HTSUS,
which provides for permanent magnets of metal. The general rate of duty will
be 2.1 percent ad valorem.
The applicable subheading for the snap rings, if made of iron or steel, will
be 7318.24.00, HTSUS, which provides for cotters and cotter pins of iron or
steel. The general rate of duty will be 3.8 percent ad valorem.
23  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 24]
The applicable subheading for the Viton o-rings will be 3926.90.4510,
which provides for o-rings of plastic. The general rate of duty will be 3.5
percent ad valorem.
The applicable subheading for the EPDM o-rings will be 4016.93.5010,
which provides for o-rings of other vulcanized rubber other than hard rubber.
The general rate of duty will be 2.5 percent ad valorem.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs
Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be
provided with the entry documents ﬁled at the time this merchandise is
imported. If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National
Import Specialist Kenneth T. Brock at 646–733–3009.
Sincerely,
ROBERT B. SWIERUPSKI
Director,
National Commodity Specialist Division
24 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 25]
ATTACHMENT B
N302039
February 5, 2019
CLA-2–85:OT:RR:NC:N1:102
CATEGORY: Classiﬁcation
TARIFF NO.: 8505.19.3000, 9903.88.03
MICHAEL KNOWLES
KCI CUSTOMS BROKERS, INC
1900 NW 82ND AVE
MIAMI, FL 33126
RE: The tariff classiﬁcation of a magnet from China
DEAR MR. KNOWLES:
In your letter dated December 3, 2018 you requested a tariff classiﬁcation
ruling on behalf of your client American Gift Corporation. Pictures of the item
were included.
The item under consideration is referred to as a Sea Turtle PVC magnet,
item number 88277. The item consists of a PVC turtle with a circular magnet
affixed to the underside of the turtle. The hard magnet is described as a
ceramic (ferrite) magnet that is primarily of iron oxide material. The Sea
Turtle PVC magnet allows for notes, pictures, and the like to be secured to
metal surfaces.
In your letter, you suggest that the Sea Turtle PVC magnet is classiﬁed in
subheading 8505.11.0030, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States,
HTSUS, which provides for permanent magnets and articles intended to
become permanent magnets after magnetization: of metal: ceramic.
While we agree that the article is classiﬁed within heading 8505, we
disagree at the subheading level. The Sea Turtle PVC magnet is a composite
good that consists of a PVC turtle with a hard magnet. Such articles have
been classiﬁed in subheading 8505.19.3000. See NYR N019818, dated De-
cember 11, 2007 and NYR N062663, dated June 11, 2009.
As such, the applicable subheading for the Sea Turtle PVC magnet, item
number 88277 will be 8505.19.3000, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
United States (HTSUS), which provides for Permanent magnets and articles
intended to become permanent magnets after magnetization: Other: Other.
The rate of duty will be 4.9 percent ad valorem.
Effective July 6, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative
(USTR) imposed an additional tariff on certain products of China classiﬁed in
the subheadings enumerated in Section XXII, Chapter 99, Subchapter III
U.S. Note 20(b), HTSUS. The USTR imposed additional tariffs, effective
August 23, 2018, on products classiﬁed under the subheadings enumerated in
Section XXII, Chapter 99, Subchapter III U.S. Note 20(d), HTSUS. Subse-
quently, the USTR imposed further tariffs, effective September 24, 2018, on
products classiﬁed under the subheadings enumerated in Section XXII,
Chapter 99, Subchapter III U.S. Note 20(f) and U.S. Note 20(g), HTSUS.
For additional information, please see the relevant Federal Register no-
tices dated June 20, 2018 (83 F.R. 28710), August 16, 2018 (83 F.R. 40823),
and September 21, 2018 (83 F.R. 47974). Products of China that are provided
for in subheading 9903.88.01, 9903.88.02, 9903.88.03, or 9903.88.04 and
classiﬁed in one of the subheadings enumerated in U.S. Note 20(b), U.S. Note
20(d), U.S. Note 20(f) or U.S. Note 20(g) to subchapter III shall continue to be
25  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 26]
subject to antidumping, countervailing, or other duties, fees and charges that
apply to such products, as well as to those imposed by the aforementioned
Chapter 99 subheadings.
Products of China classiﬁed under subheading 8505.19.3000, HTSUS, un-
less speciﬁcally excluded, are subject to the additional 10 percent ad valorem
rate of duty. At the time of importation, you must report the Chapter 99
subheading, i.e., 9903.88.03, in addition to subheading 8505.19.3000, HT-
SUS, listed above.
The tariff is subject to periodic amendment so you should exercise reason-
able care in monitoring the status of goods covered by the Notice cited above
and the applicable Chapter 99 subheading.
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.
The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are
provided on the World Wide Web at https://hts.usitc.gov/current.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs
Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be
provided with the entry documents ﬁled at the time this merchandise is
imported. If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National
Import Specialist Sandra Martinez at Sandra.martinez@cbp.dhs.gov.
Sincerely,
STEVEN A. MACK
Director
National Commodity Specialist Division
26 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 27]
ATTACHMENT C
N302895
April 3, 2019
CLA-2–85:OT:RR:NC:N1:102
CATEGORY: Classiﬁcation
TARIFF NO.: 8505.19.3000, 9903.88.03
MS. HEATHER LA VERTY
THE CAMELOT COMPANY
9865 W. LELAND AVENUE
SCHILLER PARK, IL 60176
RE: The tariff classiﬁcation of magnetic ﬂoor sweeper from China
DEAR MS. LA VERTY:
In your letter dated December 28, 2018 you requested a tariff classiﬁcation
ruling on behalf of your client, Charles Amash Imports Inc., dba GRIP On
Tools. A sample was provided and is being returned to you.
The product in question is referred to as the 17” Mini Magnetic Floor
Sweeper, item number GRIP 53417. The ﬂoor sweeper consists of a ceramic
(iron oxide material) magnetic bar that is attached to a steel bar with a
rubber grip. Two rubber wheels are attached to the outer sections of the
magnetic bar and as the user pushes the steel bar, the ﬂoor sweeper rolls over
the ground and this allows the magnet, which imparts the essential charac-
ter, to retrieve metal articles, such as screws and nails.
Classiﬁcation of merchandise under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
United States (HTSUS) is governed by the General Rules of Interpretation
(GRIs). GRI 1 provides that classiﬁcation is determined ﬁrst in accordance
with the terms of the headings of the tariff and any relative section or chapter
notes. Although not dispositive, the Explanatory Notes (ENs) to the Harmo-
nized Commodity Description and Coding System represent the official in-
terpretation of the tariff at the international level and facilitate classiﬁcation
under the HTSUS by offering guidance in understanding the scope of the
headings and the GRIs.
Consideration was given to classifying the magnetic ﬂoor sweeper in head-
ing 8716, HTSUS, which provides for non-mechanically propelled vehicles, as
you suggested. The ENs describe these goods as non-mechanically propelled
vehicles equipped with one or more wheels and constructed for the transport
of goods or persons. The main function of the sweeper is not to transport the
goods, but rather to remove items from a surface (ﬂoor).
Furthermore, the ENs state that “the classiﬁcation of units consisting of
vehicles with permanently built-on machines or appliances is determined
according to the essential character of the whole. The heading therefore
covers such units which derive their essential character from the vehicle
itself. On the other hand, units deriving their essential character from the
machine or appliance they incorporate are excluded.” In this instance, the
sweeper incorporates a magnet, which imparts the essential character of the
sweeper. As a result, classiﬁcation of the magnetic ﬂoor sweeper in heading
8716, HTSUS, is precluded.
In your letter, you also suggest that the 17” Mini Magnetic Floor Sweeper
be classiﬁed in subheading 8505.11.0030, HTSUS, which provides for perma-
nent magnets and articles intended to become permanent magnets after
27  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 28]
magnetization: of metal: ceramic. While we agree that the article is classiﬁed
within heading 8505, we disagree at the subheading level.
The 17” Mini Magnetic Floor Sweeper is a composite good that consists of
a handle, rollers and a non-ﬂexible magnet that imparts the essential char-
acter. Composite goods in which a magnet is used to retrieve metal articles
have previously been classiﬁed in subheading 8505.19.3000. See NYR
N061775 dated May 28, 2009. This office notes that in your letter, you
mention that the magnetic ﬂoor sweeper is similar to the magnets classiﬁed
in NYR N289369 and NYR N290319, which classiﬁed ceramic magnets in
subheading 8505.11.0030. However, this office does not ﬁnd any of aformen-
tioned rulings relevant, as the subject ﬂoor sweeper is a composite good.
As such, the applicable subheading for the 17” Mini Magnetic Floor
Sweeper, item number GRIP 53417, will be 8505.19.3000, HTSUS, which
provides for Permanent magnets and articles intended to become permanent
magnets after magnetization: Other: Other. The rate of duty will be 4.9
percent ad valorem.
Effective July 6, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative
(USTR) imposed an additional tariff on certain products of China classiﬁed in
the subheadings enumerated in Section XXII, Chapter 99, Subchapter III
U.S. Note 20(b), HTSUS. The USTR imposed additional tariffs, effective
August 23, 2018, on products classiﬁed under the subheadings enumerated in
Section XXII, Chapter 99, Subchapter III U.S. Note 20(d), HTSUS. Subse-
quently, the USTR imposed further tariffs, effective September 24, 2018, on
products classiﬁed under the subheadings enumerated in Section XXII,
Chapter 99, Subchapter III U.S. Note 20(f) and U.S. Note 20(g), HTSUS. For
additional information, please see the relevant Federal Register notices
dated June 20, 2018 (83 F.R. 28710), August 16, 2018 (83 F.R. 40823), and
September 21, 2018 (83 F.R. 47974). Products of China that are provided for
in subheading 9903.88.01, 9903.88.02, 9903.88.03, or 9903.88.04 and classi-
ﬁed in one of the subheadings enumerated in U.S. Note 20(b), U.S. Note
20(d), U.S. Note 20(f) or U.S. Note 20(g) to subchapter III shall continue to be
subject to antidumping, countervailing, or other duties, fees and charges that
apply to such products, as well as to those imposed by the aforementioned
Chapter 99 subheadings.
Products of China classiﬁed under subheading 8505.19.3000, HTSUS, un-
less speciﬁcally excluded, are subject to the additional 10 percent ad valorem
rate of duty. At the time of importation, you must report the Chapter 99
subheading, i.e., 9903.88.03, in addition to subheading 8505.19.3000, HT-
SUS, listed above.
The tariff is subject to periodic amendment so you should exercise reason-
able care in monitoring the status of goods covered by the Notice cited above
and the applicable Chapter 99 subheading.
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.
The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are
provided on the World Wide Web at https://hts.usitc.gov/current.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs
Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be
provided with the entry documents ﬁled at the time this merchandise is
imported. If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National
Import Specialist Sandra Martinez at Sandra.martinez@cbp.dhs.gov.
28 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 29]
Sincerely,
STEVEN A. MACK
Director
National Commodity Specialist Division
29  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 30]
ATTACHMENT D
N314064
September 14, 2020
CLA-2–85:OT:RR:NC:N1:103
CATEGORY: Classiﬁcation
TARIFF NO.: 8505.19.3000; 9903.88.03
MELISSA CANNON
MASTER MAGNETICS, INC.
1211 ATCHISON COURT
CASTLE ROCK, CO 80109
RE: The tariff classiﬁcation of a 3-in-1 magnetic sweeper from China
DEAR MS. CANNON:
In your letter dated August 19, 2020 you requested a tariff classiﬁcation
ruling.
The item under consideration is a 3-in-1 magnetic sweeper, part numbers
MS3N1–48, MS3N1–60, MS3N1–72, MS3N1–84, and MS3N1–96, designed
to magnetically attract ferrous metal debris, such as nails, screws, metal
ﬁlings, and other metal scrap from ﬂoors, walkways, driveways, parking lots,
and work areas. The item consists of ceramic magnets (predominantly ferric
oxide material) and a steel bar enclosed in a heavy-gauge steel and aluminum
housing. Attached is a quick release handle, mounting brackets, removable
tow handle, and semi-pneumatic wheels on both sides. As the sweeper moves
across the ground, the magnets attract ferrous metal debris. When the quick
release handle is pulled, it creates a gap wide enough to dislodge the collected
debris, where it can then be cleaned up. The item can be used in several
conﬁgurations including being pushed or pulled by the handle, mounted
using eyebolts on the forks of a forklift, hung from a vehicle, and towed
behind a vehicle. Each part number is identical in design with the exception
of the sweeping width, which come in 48 inches, 60 inches, 72 inches, 84
inches, or 96 inches.
Classiﬁcation under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
(HTSUS) is made in accordance with the General Rules of Interpretation
(GRIs). GRI 1 provides that the classiﬁcation of goods shall be determined
according to the terms of the headings of the tariff schedule and any relative
section or chapter notes. In the event that the goods cannot be classiﬁed
solely on the basis of GRI 1, and if the headings and legal notes do not
otherwise require, the remaining GRIs 2 through 6 may then be applied in
order.
In your request you suggest the 3-in-1 magnetic sweeper is properly clas-
siﬁed in subheading 8505.11.0030, HTSUS, which provides for Electromag-
nets; permanent magnets and articles intended to become permanent mag-
nets after magnetization; electromagnetic or permanent magnet chucks,
clamps and similar holding devices; electromagnetic couplings, clutches and
brakes; electromagnetic lifting heads; parts thereof: Permanent magnets and
articles intended to become permanent magnets after magnetization: Of
metal: Ceramic. While we agree that the article is classiﬁed within heading
8505, HTSUS, we disagree at the subheading level.
The 3-in-1 magnetic sweeper is a composite good consisting of steel, alu-
minum, and rubber materials, which make up components including mag-
nets, wheels, a steel bar, a handle and various hardware to form a complete
30 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 31]
article. It is the opinion of this office that the article is distinguished by the
magnetic component, which allows it to function as a magnet. Accordingly,
the magnetic portion appears to be of primary importance to the composite
article and the component which imparts its essential character. Composite
goods in which a magnet is used to “sweep” metal articles have previously
been classiﬁed in subheading 8505.19.3000. See NY ruling N302895 dated
April 3, 2019.
As such, the applicable subheading for the 3-in-1 magnetic sweeper, part
numbers MS3N1–48, MS3N1–60, MS3N1–72, MS3N1–84 and MS3N1–96,
will be 8505.19.3000, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HT-
SUS), which provides for Electromagnets; permanent magnets and articles
intended to become permanent magnets after magnetization; electromag-
netic or permanent magnet chucks, clamps and similar holding devices;
electromagnetic couplings, clutches and brakes; electromagnetic lifting
heads; parts thereof: Permanent magnets and articles intended to become
permanent magnets after magnetization: Other: Other. The rate of duty will
be 4.9 percent ad valorem.
Pursuant to U.S. Note 20 to Subchapter III, Chapter 99, HTSUS, products
of China classiﬁed under subheading 8505.19.3000, HTSUS, unless speciﬁ-
cally excluded, are subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty.
At the time of importation, you must report the Chapter 99 subheading, i.e.,
9903.88.03, in addition to subheading 8505.19.3000, HTSUS, listed above.
The HTSUS is subject to periodic amendment so you should exercise
reasonable care in monitoring the status of goods covered by the Note cited
above and the applicable Chapter 99 subheading. For background informa-
tion regarding the trade remedy initiated pursuant to Section 301 of the
Trade Act of 1974, you may refer to the relevant parts of the USTR and CBP
websites, which are available at https://ustr.gov/issue-areas/enforcement/
section-301-investigations/tariff-actions and https://www.cbp.gov/trade/
remedies/301-certain-products-china, respectively.
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.
The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are
provided on the World Wide Web at https://hts.usitc.gov/current.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs
Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be
provided with the entry documents ﬁled at the time this merchandise is
imported. If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National
Import Specialist Paul Huang at paul.huang@cbp.dhs.gov.
Sincerely,
STEVEN A. MACK
Director
National Commodity Specialist Division
31  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 32]
ATTACHMENT E
NY B84458
May 15, 1997
CLA-2–85:RR:NC:1: 112 B84458
CATEGORY: Classiﬁcation
TARIFF NO.: 8505.11.0000
MR. HIROFUMI KURODA
WORLD LINK TRADING CO., LTD.
18726 WESTERN AVENUE
GARDENA, CA 90248
RE: The tariff classiﬁcation of a “Bye-Bye Birdie” from Japan
DEAR MR. KURODA:
In your letter dated April 18, 1997 you requested a tariff classiﬁcation
ruling.
As indicated by the submitted samples and descriptive literature, “Bye-Bye
Birdie” is a device which claims to be successful in keeping birds away from
a speciﬁed area through the action of a specialized magnetic system which
disturbs the geomagnetic ﬁeld that birds use to ﬁnd their direction. There are
two basic models identiﬁed as the “Wing” and the “Ninja”. In both cases, the
magnetic system consists of a combination of ferrite magnets and neodymium
magnets which are stacked with the magnetic poles in a N-S-N-S orientation.
The “Wing” model, which is designed to hang suspended from an overhead
point, features an octagonal cylinder which contains the magnets. This cyl-
inder has a holographic surface with wing-like attachments on each side. The
“Ninja” model is designed to be placed on building ledges or other ﬂat sur-
faces and consists of a base unit which incorporates the magnets, and spoke-
like plastic attachments which radiate off the base.
The applicable subheading for the “Bye-Bye Birdie” will be 8505.11.0000,
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS), which provides for
permanent magnets of metal. The rate of duty will be 2.5 percent ad valorem.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs
Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be
provided with the entry documents ﬁled at the time this merchandise is
imported. If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National
Import Specialist David Curran at 212–466–5680.
Sincerely,
ROBERT SWIERUPSKI
Chief, Metals and Machinery Branch
National Commodity Specialist Division
32 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 33]
ATTACHMENT F
NY R03088
February 10, 2006
CLA-2–85:RR:NC:MM:109 R03088
CATEGORY: Classiﬁcation
TARIFF NO.: 8505.11.0000
MS. CYNTHIA ELLEN KAEHLER
IMPORT & CUSTOMS BROKERAGE FASTENEL
4730 SERVICE DRIVE
WINONA, MN 55987
RE: The tariff classiﬁcation of welding magnets from China
DEAR MS. KAEHLER:
In your letter dated January 12, 2006, you requested a tariff classiﬁcation
ruling.
The merchandise subject of this ruling is identiﬁed in your letter as weld-
ing magnets. Pictures of these magnets, with Factory Part #s, were included
with your submission. The Factory Part #s are MINI 8LBS, 6001 25LBS,
6002 50LBS, and 6003 75LBS. These magnets are used to hold pieces of pipe
together while welding them. The composition of the magnets consists of a
ceramic center encased in steel. They are basically functional magnets made
of steel.
The applicable subheading for the welding magnets (Factory Part #s MINI
8LBS, 6001 25LBS, 6002 50LBS, and 6003 75LBS) will be 8505.11.0000
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), which provides
for “Permanent magnets and articles intended to become magnets after
magnetization: Of metal.” The rate of duty will be 2.1 percent ad valorem.
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.
The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are
provided on World Wide Web at http://www.usitc.gov/tata/hts/.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs
Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be
provided with the entry documents ﬁled at the time this merchandise is
imported. If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National
Import Specialist Linda M. Hackett at 646–733–3015.
Sincerely,
ROBERT B. SWIERUPSKI
Director,
National Commodity Specialist Division
33  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 34]
ATTACHMENT G
N289369
September 13, 2017
CLA-2–73:OT:RR:NC:N1:121
CATEGORY: Classiﬁcation
TARIFF NO.: 7318.15.8066; 7318.15.8069;
7326.90.8688; 8409.99.9190; 8505.11.0030
MS. LAUREN BE N WAY
TRANS-BORDER GLOBAL FREIGHT SYSTEMS
2103 ROUTE 9
ROUND LAKE, NY 12151
RE: The tariff classiﬁcation of fasteners, a gasket, a drain plug and a magnet
from Taiwan
DEAR MS. BE N WAY:
In your letter dated August 9, 2017, you requested a tariff classiﬁcation
ruling on behalf of Marli Manufacturing. The submitted samples will be
retained by this office.
The products under consideration are ﬁve articles used in the automobile
industry.
Product number 44–06 is a hex head cap screw made of medium carbon
steel. It has a fully threaded shank and a washer face. Although speciﬁc
dimensions have not been provided, measurement with a caliper determines
the shank to exceed 6 mm in diameter. You indicate that it has general
applications throughout the vehicle.
Product number 85–68, described as an “exhaust manifold bolt,” is an
indented hex ﬂange shoulder bolt, M8 x 1.25, made of medium carbon steel
that serves to mount the catalytic convertor to the exhaust system. Speciﬁ-
cally, it fastens the exhaust pipes to the exhaust headers. You indicate that
the bolt is used in conjunction with a spring (not included) and a nut (not
included) to allow ﬂex and protect the converter from the shock of the road.
Consideration was given to classifying product numbers 44–06 and 85–68
as bolts in subheading 7318.15.2065, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
United States (HTSUS), as you proposed. However, after consulting ANSI/
ASME Standard B18.2.1 and reviewing the features of these fasteners in
relation to the criteria, product numbers 44–06 and 85–68 are determined to
be screws, greater than 6 mm in diameter.
The applicable subheading for product number 44–06 (hex head cap screw)
will be 7318.15.8066, HTSUS, which provides for screws, bolts, nuts, coach
screws, screw hooks, rivets, cotters, cotter pins, washers (including spring
washers) and similar articles, of iron or steel: threaded articles: other screws
and bolts, whether or not with their nuts or washers: other: having shanks or
threads with a diameter of 6 mm or more: other: other: with hexagonal heads:
other: cap screws. The duty rate will be 8.5% ad valorem.
The applicable subheading for product number 85–68 (exhaust manifold
bolt) will be 7318.15.8069, HTSUS, which provides for screws, bolts, nuts,
coach screws, screw hooks, rivets, cotters, cotter pins, washers (including
spring washers) and similar articles, of iron or steel: threaded articles: other
screws and bolts, whether or not with their nuts or washers: other: having
shanks or threads with a diameter of 6 mm or more: other: other: with
hexagonal heads: other: other. The duty rate will be 8.5% ad valorem.
34 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 35]
Product number 74–08 is an oil drain plug gasket made of metal and
rubber. It works with an oil drain plug (not included) to seal the oil pan.
You propose classiﬁcation of the metal/rubber oil drain plug gasket in
subheading 4016.93.1050, HTSUS, which provides for other articles of vul-
canized rubber other than hard rubber: other: gaskets, washers, and other
seals: of a kind used in the automotive goods of chapter 87: other. However,
based on the sample and the information provided, the rubber content is
minimal in relation to the metal and does not impart the essential character
to this product.
The applicable subheading for product number 74–08 (oil drain plug gas-
ket) will be 7326.90.8688, HTSUS, which provides for other articles of iron or
steel, other, other, other, other, other. The rate of duty will be 2.9 percent ad
valorem.
Product number 80–39 is an oil drain plug, which serves as a plug for the
oil pan within an automotive engine. It is installed either by hand or with a
3/8 drive into mating grooves that lock the plug into place in the pan. The
main function the plug is to seal the oil pan of the engine, and to facilitate the
draining and the changing of the engine oil. It consists of 96.43 % polyamide
body and 3.57% rubber washer. You state in your request that part 80–39 can
be used either with spark ignited or diesel engines.
You suggested classiﬁcation of the oil drain plug in subheading
8708.99.6890, HTSUS. This office disagrees. It is a long-standing classiﬁca-
tion principle that “a part of [a] particular part is more speciﬁcally provided
for as a part of the part than as a part of the whole.” C.F. Liebert v. United
States, 287 F. Supp. 1009 (1968). The plug under review is an internal
component of the engine within a vehicle. Therefore, the plug is more imme-
diately a part of the engine than a part of an entire vehicle.
The applicable subheading for part number 80–39 (oil drain plug) will be
8409.99.9190, HTSUS, which provides for parts suitable for use solely or
principally with the engines of heading 8407 or 8408: other: other: other: for
vehicles of subheading 8701.20, or heading 8702, 8703 or 8704: other.” The
general rate of duty will be 2.5%.
Part number MA-3010 disk magnet is a ceramic (ferrite) magnet primarily
composed of iron oxide.
The applicable subheading for part number MA-3010 (disk magnet) will be
8505.11.0030, HTSUS, which provides for permanent magnets and articles
intended to become permanent magnets after magnetization: of metal: ce-
ramic. The general rate of duty will be 2.1 percent ad valorem.
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.
The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are
provided on World Wide Web at https://hts.usitc.gov/current.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs
Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be
provided with the entry documents ﬁled at the time this merchandise is
imported. If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National
Import Specialist Barbara Kaiser at barbara.kaiser@cbp.dhs.gov.
Sincerely,
STEVEN A. MACK
Director
National Commodity Specialist Division
35  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 36]
ATTACHMENT H
N290319
October 18, 2017
CLA-2–85:OT:RR:NC:N1:102
CATEGORY: Classiﬁcation
TARIFF NO.: 8505.11.0030
MS. JOY PAN
OFFICEMATE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
90 NEWFIELD AVENUE
EDISON, NEW JERSEY 08837
RE: The tariff classiﬁcation of magnets in a tub from China.
DEAR MS. PAN:
In your letter dated September 19, 2017 you requested a tariff classiﬁcation
ruling.
Product number 92500 consists of 30 magnets contained in a plastic tub
packaged ready for retail sale. The assorted colored magnets are primarily of
isotropic ferrite material embedded in a circular shaped cover of plastic
material. The magnets are available in three sizes that measure 5/8”, 1 1/8”
or 1 1/2” in diameter. The magnets can be used on metal surfaces, such as
cabinets and presentation boards.
The applicable subheading for product number 92500, which consists of 30
magnets contained in a plastic tub, will be 8505.11.0030, Harmonized Tariff
Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), which provides for Electromagnets;
permanent magnets and articles intended to become permanent magnets
after magnetization...Of metal, Ceramic. The general rate of duty is 2.1
percent ad valorem.
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.
The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are
provided on the World Wide Web at https://hts.usitc.gov/current.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs
Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be
provided with the entry documents ﬁled at the time this merchandise is
imported. If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National
Import Specialist Sandra Martinez at Sandra.martinez@cbp.dhs.gov.
Sincerely,
STEVEN A. MACK
Director
National Commodity Specialist Division
36 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 37]
ATTACHMENT I
HQ H328977
OT:RR:CTF:EMAIN H328977 MFT
CATEGORY: Classiﬁcation
TARIFF NO.: 8505.19.30
MS. MELISSA CANNON
MASTER MAGNETICS, INC.
1211 ATCHINSON COURT
CASTLE ROCK, CO 80109
RE: Modiﬁcation of NY J85077, NY N302039, NY N302895, and NY
N314064; Revocation of NY B84458, NY R03088, NY N289369, and NY
N290319; Classiﬁcation of certain permanent magnets and articles with the
essential character of permanent magnets
DEAR MS. CANNON:
This letter is in response to your request, submitted September 22, 2020,
seeking reconsideration of New York Ruling Letter (NY) N314064 (dated
September 14, 2020). That ruling considered the classiﬁcation under the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) of a certain three-
in-one magnetic sweeper from China. We have re-examined NY N314064 and
ﬁnd its ultimate classiﬁcation of the merchandise to be correct; however, we
hereby modify that ruling to emend certain dicta expressed therein. Further-
more, after reviewing NY N302039 (dated February 5, 2019) and NY
N302895 (dated April 3, 2019), we similarly affirm their ultimate classiﬁca-
tion determinations but hereby modify those rulings as to certain dicta.
We have also reviewed NY J85077 (dated June 19, 2003); NY B84458
(dated May 15, 1997); NY R03088 (dated February 10, 2006); NY N289369
(dated September 13, 2017); and NY N290319 (dated October 18, 2017). Each
of these rulings classiﬁed certain permanent magnets of materials other than
metal under subheading 8505.11.00, HTSUS, which provides for “Electro-
magnets; permanent magnets and articles intended to become permanent
magnets after magnetization; electromagnetic or permanent magnet chucks,
clamps and similar holding devices; electromagnetic couplings, clutches and
brakes; electromagnetic lifting heads; parts thereof: Permanent magnets and
articles intended to become permanent magnets after magnetization: Of
metal.” We have determined that the tariff classiﬁcation of these magnets is
incorrect and hereby revoke or modify those rulings, accordingly, as explained
below.
FACTS:
In NY N314064, the merchandise at issue was a three-in-one magnetic
sweeper described in the ruling as follows:
The item under consideration is a 3-in-1 magnetic sweeper, part numbers
MS3N1–48, MS3N1–60, MS3N1–72, MS3N1–84, and MS3N1–96, de-
signed to magnetically attract ferrous metal debris, such as nails, screws,
metal ﬁlings, and other metal scrap from ﬂoors, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, and work areas. The item consists of ceramic magnets
(predominantly ferric oxide material) and a steel bar enclosed in a heavy-
gauge steel and aluminum housing. Attached is a quick release handle,
mounting brackets, removable tow handle, and semi-pneumatic wheels
on both sides. As the sweeper moves across the ground, the magnets
37  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 38]
attract ferrous metal debris. When the quick release handle is pulled, it
creates a gap wide enough to dislodge the collected debris, where it can
then be cleaned up. The item can be used in several conﬁgurations
including being pushed or pulled by the handle, mounted using eyebolts
on the forks of a forklift, hung from a vehicle, and towed behind a vehicle.
Each part number is identical in design with the exception of the sweep-
ing width, which come in 48 inches, 60 inches, 72 inches, 84 inches, or 96
inches.
We noted that the magnetic sweeper was a composite good and that a prior
decision classiﬁed another composite good under subheading 8505.19.30,
HTSUS:
The 3-in-1 magnetic sweeper is a composite good consisting of steel,
aluminum, and rubber materials, which make up components including
magnets, wheels, a steel bar, a handle and various hardware to form a
complete article. It is the opinion of this office that the article is distin-
guished by the magnetic component, which allows it to function as a
magnet. Accordingly, the magnetic portion appears to be of primary im-
portance to the composite article and the component which imparts its
essential character. Composite goods in which a magnet is used to “sweep”
metal articles have previously been classiﬁed in subheading 8505.19.3000.
See NY ruling N302895 dated April 3, 2019. [ emphasis added]
As such, the applicable subheading for the 3-in-1 magnetic sweeper, part
numbers MS3N1–48, MS3N1–60, MS3N1–72, MS3N1–84 and
MS3N1–96, will be [subheading] 8505.19.3000, Harmonized Tariff Sched-
ule of the United States (HTSUS), which provides for Electromagnets;
permanent magnets and articles intended to become permanent magnets
after magnetization; electromagnetic or permanent magnet chucks,
clamps and similar holding devices; electromagnetic couplings, clutches
and brakes; electromagnetic lifting heads; parts thereof: Permanent mag-
nets and articles intended to become permanent magnets after magneti-
zation: Other: Other.
The article at issue in NY N302039 is discussed therein as follows:
The item under consideration is referred to as a Sea Turtle PVC magnet,
item number 88277. The item consists of a PVC turtle with a circular
magnet affixed to the underside of the turtle. The hard magnet is de-
scribed as a ceramic (ferrite) magnet that is primarily of iron oxide
material. The Sea Turtle PVC magnet allows for notes, pictures, and the
like to be secured to metal surfaces. [. . .]
While we agree that the article is classiﬁed within heading 8505, we
disagree at the subheading level. The Sea Turtle PVC magnet is a com-
posite good that consists of a PVC turtle with a hard magnet. Such articles
have been classiﬁed in subheading 8505.19.3000. See NYR N019818,
dated December 11, 2007[,] and NYR N062663, dated June 11, 2009.
[emphasis added]
As such, the applicable subheading for the Sea Turtle PVC magnet, item
number 88277 will be 8505.19.3000, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
United States (HTSUS) [Annotated], which provides for Permanent mag-
38 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 39]
nets and articles intended to become permanent magnets after magneti-
zation: Other: Other. The rate of duty will be 4.9 percent ad valorem.
In NY N302895, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) considered the
classiﬁcation of a magnetic ﬂoor sweeper from China and described the
article as follows:
The product in question is referred to as the 17” Mini Magnetic Floor
Sweeper, item number GRIP 53417. The ﬂoor sweeper consists of a ce-
ramic (iron oxide material) magnetic bar that is attached to a steel bar
with a rubber grip. Two rubber wheels are attached to the outer sections
of the magnetic bar and as the user pushes the steel bar, the ﬂoor sweeper
rolls over the ground and this allows the magnet, which imparts the
essential character, to retrieve metal articles, such as screws and nails.
That ruling similarly considered the fact that the sweeper constituted a
composite good and stated as follows:
The 17” Mini Magnetic Floor Sweeper is a composite good that consists of
a handle, rollers and a non-ﬂexible magnet that imparts the essential
character. Composite goods in which a magnet is used to retrieve metal
articles have previously been classiﬁed in subheading 8505.19.3000. See
NYR N061775 dated May 28, 2009. This office notes that in your letter,
you mention that the magnetic ﬂoor sweeper is similar to the magnets
classiﬁed in NYR N289369 and NYR N290319, which classiﬁed ceramic
magnets in subheading 8505.11.0030. However, this office does not ﬁnd
any of [the] afor[e]mentioned rulings relevant, as the subject ﬂoor sweeper
is a composite good . [emphasis added]
As such, the applicable subheading for the 17” Mini Magnetic Floor
Sweeper, item number GRIP 53417, will be 8505.19.3000, HTSUS, which
provides for Permanent magnets and articles intended to become perma-
nent magnets after magnetization: Other: Other. The rate of duty will be
4.9 percent ad valorem.
In NY J85077, the merchandise at issue is described as follows: “The articles
in question are described as a sample/addition valve kit, part numbers
MCLAVE10X1SAMP and MCLAVE10X10SAMP and a spares [sic] part kit,
part number MCLAVE10XSPARES. [. . .] The spare parts kit includes [. . .] 20
stirrer bars, which are essentially Teﬂon-coated magnets [. . . .]” We classiﬁed
the stirrer bars under subheading 8505.11.00, HTSUS, as permanent mag-
nets of metal.
In NY B84458, the merchandise under consideration is described as fol-
lows:
As indicated by the submitted samples and descriptive literature, “Bye-
Bye Birdie” is a device which claims to be successful in keeping birds
away from a speciﬁed area through the action of a specialized magnetic
system which disturbs the geomagnetic ﬁeld that birds use to ﬁnd their
direction. There are two basic models identiﬁed as the “Wing” and the
“Ninja”. In both cases, the magnetic system consists of a combination of
ferrite magnets and neodymium magnets which are stacked with the
magnetic poles in a N-S-N-S orientation.
We found that the “Bye-Bye Birdie” was classiﬁable under subheading
8505.11.00, HTSUS, as a permanent magnet of metal.
39  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 40]
NY R03088 describes the merchandise under consideration as follows:
The merchandise subject of this ruling is identiﬁed in your letter as
welding magnets. Pictures of these magnets, with Factory Part #s, were
included with your submission. The Factory Part #s are MINI 8LBS, 6001
25LBS, 6002 50LBS, and 6003 75LBS. These magnets are used to hold
pieces of pipe together while welding them. The composition of the mag-
nets consists of a ceramic center encased in steel. They are basically
functional magnets made of steel.
The magnets in NY R03088 were classiﬁed under subheading 8505.11.00,
HTSUS, as permanent magnets of metal.
CBP also considered the classiﬁcation of a certain magnet from Taiwan in
NY N289369: “Part number MA-3010 disk magnet is a ceramic (ferrite)
magnet primarily composed of iron oxide.” We found that the merchandise in
that ruling was classiﬁed as a permanent magnet of metal under subheading
8505.11.00, HTSUS.
Finally, in NY N290319, the merchandise at issue is described as follows:
Product number 92500 consists of 30 magnets contained in a plastic tub
packaged ready for retail sale. The assorted colored magnets are primar-
ily of isotropic ferrite material embedded in a circular shaped cover of
plastic material. The magnets are available in three sizes that measure
5/8”, 1 1/8” or 1 1/2” in diameter. The magnets can be used on metal
surfaces, such as cabinets and presentation boards.
We held that the thirty magnets were classiﬁed under subheading
8505.11.00, HTSUS, as permanent magnets of metal.
ISSUE:
Whether the subject magnets are “of metal,” and thus properly classiﬁed in
subheading 8505.11, HTSUS, or are properly classiﬁed under subheading
8505.19, HTSUS, as magnets of materials other than metal.
LAW AND ANALYSIS:
Classiﬁcation under the HTSUS is in accordance with the General Rules of
Interpretation (GRIs). GRI 1 provides that the classiﬁcation of goods will be
determined according to the terms of the headings of the tariff schedule and
any relative section or chapter notes. In the event that the goods cannot be
classiﬁed solely on the basis of GRI 1, and if the headings and legal notes do
not otherwise require, the remaining GRIs 2 through 6 will then be applied
in order.
The classiﬁcation of goods consisting of more than one material or sub-
stance follows the principles of GRI 3. In relevant part, GRI 3(b) states that
composite goods that cannot be classiﬁed by reference to GRI 3(a) are to be
classiﬁed as if they consisted of the component that gives them their essential
character.
GRI 6 provides that for legal purposes, the classiﬁcation of goods in the
subheadings of a heading shall be determined according to the terms of those
subheadings and any related subheading notes and, mutatis mutandis, to the
above rules, on the understanding that only subheadings at the same level
are comparable.
40 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 41]
The Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System Explanatory
Notes (ENs) constitute the official interpretation of the HTSUS. Although the
ENs are not legally binding or dispositive, they provide commentary on the
scope of each heading of the HTSUS and generally indicate the proper
interpretation of these headings at the international level. 1
The HTSUS subheadings under consideration are as follows:
8505 Electromagnets; permanent magnets and articles intended to
become permanent magnets after magnetization; electromag-
netic or permanent magnet chucks, clamps and similar hold-
ing devices; electromagnetic couplings, clutches and brakes;
electromagnetic lifting heads; parts thereof:
Permanent magnets and articles intended to become
permanent magnets after magnetization:
8505.11 Of metal
*   *   *   *   *
8505.19 Other:
There is no dispute that the magnets identiﬁed in the rulings above impart
the essential character of the above-described composite goods, and likewise
by application of GRI 3(b), are classiﬁed as “permanent magnets” of heading
8505, HTSUS. By application of GRI 6, the classiﬁcation of each of the
permanent magnets shall be determined according to the terms of subhead-
ings 8505.11 and 8505.19, HTSUS. The terms of subheading 8505.11, HT-
SUS, limit classiﬁcation therein to permanent magnets (and articles in-
tended to become permanent magnets after magnetization) that are “of
metal.” Therefore, if a permanent magnet of heading 8505, HTSUS, is not “of
metal,” it does not meet the terms of subheading 8505.11, HTSUS. It follows
that permanent magnets of heading 8505, HTSUS, not of metal would be
prima facie classiﬁable under subheading 8505.19, HTSUS, as “other” per-
manent magnets.
We previously recognized that iron oxide, also known as “ferrite,” is not a
metal for purposes of subheading 8505.1
1, HTSUS.2 In Headquarters Ruling
Letter (HQ) 965543, we considered the tariff classiﬁcation of a magnetic race
car ﬁgurine where the article’s magnet was composed of anisotropic ferrite.
There, the protestant submitted in the alternative that the ﬁgurine should be
classiﬁed under subheading 8505.11, HTSUS, as a metal magnet. After de-
termining that the magnet imparted the essential character of the ﬁgurine
under GRI 3(b), we reviewed the physical characteristics of ferrite and found
it was not a metal:
The appropriate subheading is 8505.19.00, HTSUS, which provides for
permanent magnets made of materials other than metal. Protestant ar-
gues that if the subject merchandise is classiﬁed under heading 8505,
HTSUS, that the appropriate subheading is 8505.11.00, HTSUS, which
provides for permanent magnets composed of metal. However, according
to protestant’s submission, the subject article’s magnet is composed of
anisotropic ferrite. Webster’s II New College Dictionary (Houghton Miff-
lin Company, 1999), deﬁnes ferrite as “[a]ny of a group of nonmetallic,
ceramic[-]like, usu. ferromagnetic compounds of ferric oxide with other
oxides, esp. such a compound with spinel crystalline structure, marked by
1 See Treasury Decision (T.D.) 89–80, 54 Fed. Reg. 35127, 35127–28 (Aug. 23, 1989).
2 Magnets containing ferrite are also referred to as “ceramic” magnets.
41  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 42]
high electrical resistivity and used in computer memory elements, per-
manent magnets, and solid-state devices.” Thus, the magnet’s ferrite
composition excludes the merchandise from classiﬁcation under subhead-
ing 8505.11.00, HTSUS. The articles are properly classiﬁed under sub-
heading 8505.19.00, HTSUS, as permanent magnets and articles in-
tended to become permanent magnets after magneti[z]ation: other.
We have also read the EN to heading 8505, HTSUS, as distinguishing per-
manent magnets of ferrite from those “of metal.” The EN provides: “Articles
intended to become permanent magnets after magneti[z]ation are recogni[z-
]able as such by their shape and composition, generally being cubes or discs
(tags) of metal or of agglomerated ferrite (e.g., barium ferrite)” [ emphasis
added]. Based on this distinction, we previously held that the magnet’
s
composition is the main determinant, and that permanent magnets of ferrite
must be classiﬁed differently from permanent magnets of metal. For ex-
ample, in classifying an adhesive magnetic bandage where the permanent
magnet imparted the essential character of the good, we stated:
This provision [i.e., “permanent magnets . . .” under heading 8505, HT-
SUS] is divided into two categories, “of metal,” and “other
.” The August
19, 1998, letter which requested this ruling does not describe the compo-
sition of the magnets. If the magnets are of ferrrite [sic] or some other
non-metallic substance, the merchandise is classiﬁed as a permanent
magnet “other” than of metal. See EN 85.05 (2) (which notes the distinc-
tion between metal and ferrite “...of metal or of agglomerated ferrite”). If
the magnets are of metal, then the merchandise falls in the provision for
permanent magnets of metal. 3
Accordingly, we have applied this distinction between ferrite and metal in
other decisions.4 For example in NY C81811, we considered the classiﬁcation
of two types of “cow magnets,” which were designed to be “ingested by cows
and remain in the stomach to attract metal shavings and other metallic
object which could harm a cow’s intestines if swallowed.” One of the magnets
was a ceramic magnet, while the other was an “alnico type [. . .] comprised of
various metals, with iron the predominant element.” The classiﬁcation of the
cow magnets turned on their composition. As such, we held that the ceramic
magnet was classiﬁed under subheading 8505.19, HTSUS, as a permanent
magnet of a material other than metal, while the alnico magnet was classiﬁed
under subheading 8505.11, HTSUS, as a permanent magnet of metal.
Lastly, we emphasize that the mere fact an article consisting of a perma-
nent magnet and another component may constitute a composite good does
not, in and of itself, remove the good from the compass of subheading 8505.11,
HTSUS. Subject to the relevant facts, rules, and principles of classiﬁcation –
and unless the context otherwise requires – the classiﬁcation of composite
goods consisting of a permanent magnet and another material or substance
must follow the principles of GRI 3. If that good cannot be classiﬁed by
reference to GRI 3(a), then GRI 3(b) instructs that we classify the goods “as
3 HQ 962172 (dated May 5, 1999).
4 See HQ 962611 (dated May 4, 1999) (“Within heading 8505, the magnet falls within the
provision for permanent magnets of ‘other’ than metal as it has been permanently magne-
tized and is of ferrite, not metal. See EN 85.05 (2) (which notes the distinction between
metal and ferrite ‘...of metal or of agglomerated ferrite’)”); HQ 962612 (dated May 4, 1999)
(same).
42 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 43]
if they consisted of the component that gives them their essential character.”
If the permanent magnet imparts the essential character of a composite good,
the good must be classiﬁed as if it consisted solely of the permanent magnet
(even if the composite good consists of other materials besides the magnet).
Therefore, as far as subheadings 8505.11 and 8505.19, HTSUS, are con-
cerned, such classiﬁcation would turn on the composition of the magnet
alone. Once it is determined that the permanent magnet of heading 8505,
HTSUS, imparts the essential character of the composite good, all other
materials or components comprising the composite good are irrelevant for
purposes of GRI 3(b). 5
In HQ H217623, we stood for the principle that being a composite good does
not necessarily disqualify an article from classiﬁcation under subheading
8505.11, HTSUS. There, we modiﬁed HQ 562821, which wrongly classiﬁed
certain name badges consisting of “metal magnets encased in plastic” under
subheading 8505.19, HTSUS. As we stated:
The magnets at issue consist of the following components: (1) two metal
inﬂexible magnets and (2) plastic holders, holding the magnets. The
function of the magnets encased in plastic is to hold the name badges in
place, which is accomplished by the two metal magnets. The plastic
holders function as mere casing for the magnets. 
Applying GRI 2(b), we
ﬁnd that the fact that the magnets are encased in plastic does not deprive
the good of having the character of a magnet of metal. See EN XII to GRI
2(b). Accordingly, it follows that the subject magnets encased in plastic
are classiﬁed in subheading 8505.11.00, HTSUS, which provides for mag-
nets of metal.
I. Modiﬁcation of NY N302039, NY N302895, and NY N314064
In NY N302039, NY N302895, and NY N314064, we suggested that clas-
siﬁcation under subheading 8505.19, HTSUS, was appropriate in part be-
cause the subject merchandise constituted composite goods. Speciﬁcally:
(1) In NY N302039, we stated, “The Sea Turtle PVC magnet is a composite
good that consists of a PVC turtle with a hard magnet. Such articles
have been classiﬁed in subheading 8505.19.3000.”
(2) In NY N302895, we stated, “Composite goods in which a magnet is used
to retrieve metal articles have previously been classiﬁed in subheading
8505.19.3000. This of
fice notes that in your letter, you mention that the
magnetic ﬂoor sweeper is similar to the magnets classiﬁed in NYR
N289369 and NYR N290319, which classiﬁed ceramic magnets in sub-
heading 8505.11.0030. However, this office does not ﬁnd any of [the]
afor[e]mentioned rulings relevant, as the subject ﬂoor sweeper is a
composite good [internal citations omitted].”
5 We stress that this analysis and these conditions are narrow and subject to the speciﬁc
facts and applicable rules of a particular transaction. As such, the principles set forth in this
letter may not apply to distinguishable transactions. See 19 C.F.R. § 177.9(b) on the
applicability of rulings to certain transactions: “Each ruling letter is issued on the assump-
tion that all of the information furnished in connection with the ruling request and
incorporated in the ruling letter, either directly, by reference, or by implication, is accurate
and complete in every material respect. The application of a ruling letter by a [CBP] ﬁeld
office to the transaction to which it is purported to relate is subject to the veriﬁcation of the
facts incorporated in the ruling letter, a comparison of the transaction described therein to
the actual transaction, and the satisfaction of any conditions on which the ruling was
based.”
43  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 44]
(3) In NY N314064, we justiﬁed classiﬁcation of the three-in-one magnet
sweeper by stating, “Composite goods in which a magnet is used to
‘sweep’ metal articles have previously been classiﬁed in subheading
8505.19.3000.”
Although it is true that the merchandise at issue in each ruling constituted
composite goods, this fact alone does not warrant classiﬁcation under sub-
heading 8505.19, HTSUS. As we discussed above, if it is determined that a
permanent magnet of heading 8505, HTSUS, imparts the essential character
of a composite good per GRI 3(b), then the good is to be classiﬁed as if it
consisted solely of the permanent magnet. No other material or component is
relevant. To the extent that NY N302039, NY N302895, and NY N314064
expressed dicta suggesting a contrary principle, those rulings are hereby
modiﬁed.
The watchword here is “dicta”: the errant principle opined in NY N302039,
NY N302895, and NY N314064 was not necessary in determining that the
goods are classiﬁable under subheading 8505.19, HTSUS. In each case, the
permanent magnets at issue consist of ferrite (iron oxide). Ferrite is not a
metal, as explained above. Seeing as the permanent magnets in each of the
rulings are composed of non-metal material, they cannot be classiﬁed as
permanent magnets “of metal” under subheading 8505.11, HTSUS. As a
result, the merchandise in NY N302039, NY N302895, and NY N314064 is
still classiﬁable under subheading 8505.19, HTSUS, as “other” permanent
magnets. Although the aforementioned erroneous dicta does not trigger the
notice and comment requirements of 19 U.S.C. 1625(c), we nevertheless are
taking the opportunity to clarify the clarify the classiﬁcation.
II. Modiﬁcation of NY J85077 and Revocation of NY B84458, NY
R03088, N289369, and N290319
The permanent magnets in NY B84458, NY J85077, NY R03088, NY
N289369, and N290319 each are composed, at least in part, of non-metal
material that excludes the respective merchandise from classiﬁcation under
subheading 8505.11, HTSUS. Speciﬁcally:
(1) In NY B84458, the “Bye-Bye Birdie” magnetic bird repellant device
contained ferrite.
(2) In NY J85077, the stirrer bars were coated with Teﬂon.
(3) In NY R03088, the welding magnets contained a ceramic magnet center.
(4) In NY N289369, the disk magnet was “primarily composed of iron
oxide.”
(5) In NY N290319, the thirty magnets were “primarily of isotropic ferrite
material.”
None of these materials are “of metal” as speciﬁed in subheading 8505.11,
HTSUS: ferrite (iron oxide) is not a metal, as explained above; neither is
Teﬂon. Thus, each of these magnets are appropriately classiﬁed under sub-
heading 8505.19, HTSUS, as “other” permanent magnets. We therefore
modify NY J85077 as to its classiﬁcation of the stirrer bars and revoke NY
B84458, NY R03088, NY N289369, and NY N290319.
HOLDING:
By application of GRIs 1, 3(b), and 6, the subject merchandise is classiﬁed
in heading 8505, HTSUS, speciﬁcally in subheading 8505.19.30, HTSUS,
which provides for “Electromagnets; permanent magnets and articles in-
tended to become permanent magnets after magnetization; electromagnetic
44 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 45]
or permanent magnet chucks, clamps and similar holding devices; electro-
magnetic couplings, clutches and brakes; electromagnetic lifting heads; parts
thereof: Permanent magnets and articles intended to become permanent
magnets after magnetization: Other: Other.” The general, column one rate of
duty is 4.9 percent ad valorem.
Pursuant to U.S. Note 20 to Subchapter III, Chapter 99, HTSUS, products
of China classiﬁed under subheading 8505.19.30, HTSUS, unless speciﬁcally
excluded, are subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty. At
the time of importation, you must report the Chapter 99 subheading, i.e.,
9903.88.03, in addition to subheading 8505.19.30, HTSUS, listed above.
The HTSUS is subject to periodic amendment, so you should exercise
reasonable care in monitoring the status of goods covered by the Note cited
above and the applicable Chapter 99 subheading. For background informa-
tion regarding the trade remedy initiated pursuant to Section 301 of the
Trade Act of 1974, including information on exclusions and their effective
dates, you may refer to the relevant parts of the USTR and CBP websites,
which are available at https://ustr.gov/issue-areas/enforcement/section-301-
investigations/tariff-actions and https://www.cbp.gov/trade/remedies/301-
certain-products-china, respectively.
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.
The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are
provided at https://hts.usitc.gov/current.
EFFECT ON OTHER RULINGS:
NY N302039, NY N302895, and NY N314064 are modiﬁed as explained
above.
NY J85077 is hereby modiﬁed as to its classiﬁcation of stirrer bars.
NY R03088, NY B84458, NY N289369, and NY N290319 are hereby re-
voked.
In accordance with 19 U.S.C. § 1625(c), this ruling will become effective 60
days after publication in the Customs Bulletin.
Sincerely,
YULIY A A. GULIS,
Director
Commercial and Trade Facilitation Division
45  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 46]


[Page 47]
U.S. Court of International Trade
◆
Slip Op. 24–69
GREENTECH ENERGY SOLUTIONS, I NC., Plaintiff, v. U NITED STATES,
Defendant.
Before: Mark A. Barnett, Chief Judge
Court No. 23–00118
PUBLIC VERSION
[Granting Defendant’s motion to dismiss for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction.]
Dated: June 10, 2024
Mark B. Lehnardt, Law Office of David L. Simon, PLLC, of Washington, DC, argued
for Plaintiff Greentech Energy Solutions, Inc.
Emma E. Bond, Trial Attorney, Commercial Litigation Branch, Civil Division, U.S.
Department of Justice, of Washington, DC, argued for Defendant United States. Also
on the brief were Brian M. Boynton , Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General,
Patricia M. McCarthy , Director, and Reginald T. Blades, Jr. , Assistant Director. Of
counsel on the brief were Spencer Neff, Attorney, Office of the Chief Counsel for Trade
Enforcement & Compliance, U.S. Department of Commerce, and Alexandra Khrebtu-
kova, Senior Attorney, Office of the Chief Counsel for International Trade Litigation,
U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
OPINION AND ORDER
Barnett, Chief Judge:
This case involves the U.S. Department of Commerce’s (“Com-
merce”) decision in 2012 to impose ongoing certiﬁcation requirements
on importers of solar modules that contain solar cells produced in
countries other than the People’s Republic of China (“the PRC” or
“China”). U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) implements
the certiﬁcation requirements at Commerce’s direction. Conse-
quently, this case also involves actions taken by CBP to suspend
liquidation and collect cash deposits from noncompliant importers,
such as Plaintiff, and, thereafter, to liquidate entries inclusive of
antidumping (“AD”) and countervailing (“CVD”) duties. For its
claims, Plaintiff Greentech Energy Solutions, Inc. (“Greentech”) in-
vokes the court’s jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1581(i)(1)(B)
and (D) (2018 & Supp. II 2020). 1 Conﬁd. Am. Compl. ¶ 12, ECF No.
11.2
1 Further citations to the U.S. Code are to the 2018 edition, unless otherwise speciﬁed.
2 The public version of the amended complaint is docketed at ECF No. 10. The court
references the conﬁdential version of the amended complaint and exhibits attached thereto,
unless otherwise speciﬁed.
49

[Page 48]
This matter is before the court following Defendant United States’
(“the Government”) motion to dismiss this case. Conﬁd. Def.’s Mot. to
Dismiss (“Def.’s Mot.”), ECF No. 15; see also Conﬁd. Def.’s Reply in
Supp. of Mot. to Dismiss (“Def.’s Reply”), ECF No. 24. The Govern-
ment seeks dismissal for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction pursuant
to United States Court of International Trade (“USCIT”) Rule
12(b)(1), or, in the alternative, for failure to state a claim pursuant to
USCIT Rule 12(b)(6). Def.’s Mot. at 1, 14–15. Greentech opposes the
Government’s motion. Conﬁd. Pl. [Greentech’s] Resp. to Def.’s Mot. to
Dismiss (“Pl.’s Resp.”), ECF No. 20.
For the following reasons, the court ﬁnds that Greentech raises
issues that may adequately be addressed in the protests pending
before CBP and, thus, has a remedy pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1581(a).
Accordingly, section 1581(i) jurisdiction is unavailable, and this ac-
tion will be dismissed.
BACKGROUND
I. Certiﬁcation Requirements
In 2012, Commerce published antidumping duty and countervail-
ing duty orders covering crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells (“CSPV
cells” or “solar cells”) from the PRC in 2012. See Crystalline Silicon
Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Assembled Into Modules, From the
People’s Republic of China, 77 Fed. Reg. 73,018 (Dep’t Commerce Dec.
7, 2012) (am. ﬁnal determination of sales at less than fair value, and
antidumping duty order) (“AD Order”); Crystalline Silicon Photovol-
taic Cells, Whether or Not Assembled Into Modules, From the People’s
Republic of China, 77 Fed. Reg. 73,017 (Dep’t Commerce Dec. 7, 2012)
(countervailing duty order) (“ CVD Order ”) (together, “the AD/CVD
Orders” or, in reference to the proceeding generally, “Solar Cells From
China”). The scope of each order covers, inter alia, “[CSPV cells], and
modules, laminates, and panels, consisting of [CSPV cells], whether
or not partially or fully assembled into other products, including, but
not limited to, modules, laminates, panels and building integrated
materials.” AD Order, 77 Fed. Reg. at 73,018; CVD Order, 77 Fed.
Reg. at 73,017. The AD/CVD Orders also cover “[m]odules, lami-
nates, and panels produced in a third-country from cells produced in
the PRC . . . ; however, modules, laminates, and panels produced in
the PRC from cells produced in a third-country are not covered.” AD
Order, 77 Fed. Reg. at 73,019; CVD Order, 77 Fed. Reg. at 73,017.
50 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 49]
In the ﬁnal determination underlying the AD Order, Commerce set
forth certiﬁcation requirements for importers and, as necessary,
China-based exporters,3 of solar panels or modules from third coun-
tries that do not contain solar cells produced in the PRC. See Crys-
talline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Assembled into
Modules, From the People’s Republic of China, 77 Fed. Reg. 63,791,
63,796–97 (Dep’t Commerce Oct. 17, 2012) (ﬁnal determination of
sales at less than fair value, and aff. ﬁnal determination of critical
circumstances, in part) (“AD Final”). In an appendix to the AD Final,
Commerce published the required certiﬁcations. Id. at 63,797–98.
The simultaneously published ﬁnal determination underlying the
CVD Order did not contain or discuss the certiﬁcation requirement.
See Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Assembled
into Modules, From the People’
s Republic of China , 77 Fed. Reg.
63,788, 63,791 (Dep’t Commerce Oct. 17, 2012) (ﬁnal aff. CVD deter-
mination and ﬁnal aff. critical circumstances determination) (“ CVD
Final”). Commerce’s unpublished decision memoranda accompanying
the AD Final and CVD Final determinations discussed the certiﬁca-
tion requirement in response to arguments regarding the scope of the
respective investigations. See Issues and Decision Mem. for Solar
Cells From the PRC (AD), A-570–979 (Oct. 9, 2012) at 8–9; Issues and
Decision Mem. for Solar Cells From the PRC (CVD), C-570–980 (Oct.
9, 2012) at 80–81. 4
In December 2012, Commerce issued public antidumping and coun-
tervailing duty instructions to CBP addressing implementation of the
certiﬁcation requirements. See Def.’s Mot., Ex. 5 (Message No.
2356306 (Dec. 21, 2012)) (“Final AD Instructions”), ECF No. 15–5;
Def.’s Mot., Ex. 6 (Message No. 2346303 (Dec. 11, 2012)) (“Final CVD
Instructions”), ECF No. 15–6. Those instructions restate the requisite
importer and exporter certiﬁcations and provide additional informa-
tion.
The importer certiﬁcation begins as follows:
I hereby certify that I am an official of (insert name of company
importing solar panels/modules), that I have knowledge of the
facts regarding the importation of the solar panels/modules or
other products containing solar panels/modules that entered
under entry number(s) (insert entry number(s) covered by the
certiﬁcation), and that these solar panels/modules do not con-
3 Subsequent references to the exporter certiﬁcation requirement should be taken to mean
China-based exporters.
4 While they are not published in the Federal Register, Commerce’s decision memoranda are
publicly available at https://access.trade.gov/public/FRNoticesListLayout.aspx, with sepa-
rate links for pre- and post-June 2021 memoranda.
51  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 50]
tain solar cells produced in the People[’s] Republic of China. By
signing this certiﬁcate, I also hereby certify that (insert name of
[importer company]) maintains sufficient documentation sup-
porting this certiﬁcation for all solar cells used to produce the
solar panels/modules imported under the above-referenced en-
try number(s). I understand that agents of the importer, such as
brokers, are not permitted to make this certiﬁcation. Also, I am
aware that records pertaining to this certiﬁcation may be re-
quested by CBP.
Final AD Instructions ¶ 3.5 The exporter certiﬁcation is largely iden-
tical except with respect to the last sentence reproduced above,
whereby exporters must instead certify that “records pertaining to
this certiﬁcation may be subject to veriﬁcation by Department of
Commerce officials and I consent to veriﬁcation with respect to this
certiﬁcation and these records.” Id. Importers or exporters, as the
case may be, must also certify that the certiﬁcations “ should be
completed at the time of the entry” or “at the time of shipment,”
respectively. Id. (emphasis added).6 The instructions further require
importers and exporters to certify
[t]hat failure to maintain the required certiﬁcation or failure to
substantiate the claim that the panels/modules do not contain
solar cells produced in the People[’
s] Republic of China will
result in suspension of all unliquidated entries for which these
requirements were not met and the requirement that the im-
porter post an AD cash deposit or, where applicable, a bond, on
those entries equal to the PRC-wide rate in effect at the time of
the entry and a CVD cash deposit, or where applicable, a bond
rate equal to the all-others rate in effect at the time of the entry.
Id.
In the following paragraph, the instructions inform importers and
exporters that the “certiﬁcations and supporting documentation must
be maintained by the parties described above but will only be pro-
vided to [CBP] by the importer at the request of CBP” and that the
“documents should not be provided by the importer as part of the
5 Because the certiﬁcations are identical, see Final AD Instructions ¶ 3; Final CVD Instruc-
tions ¶ 3, the court cites solely to the certiﬁcations in the Final AD Instructions.
6 Notwithstanding the odd phrasing, the instructions provide that maintaining the certi-
ﬁcations is mandatory (“must”) while the certiﬁcations contain the directory (“should”)
language regarding timing. Final AD Instructions ¶ 3 . Speciﬁcally, the instructions state
that “[t]he importer certiﬁcation must be completed, signed, and dated at the time of the
entry of the panels/modules” and “[t]he exporter certiﬁcation must be completed, signed,
and dated at the time of shipment of the relevant entries.” Id. ¶ 5 (emphases added); see also
Final CVD Instructions ¶ 5.
52 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 51]
entry document package, unless speciﬁcally requested by CBP.” Id. ¶
4 (emphases added). Commerce further explained that “CBP may
accept the above certiﬁcations (and if required by CBP, supporting
documentation) to establish that the merchandise is not covered by
the scope of this order.” Id. ¶ 6. If an importer fails to provide CBP
with any requested certiﬁcations or documentation, “CBP is in-
structed to suspend all unliquidated entries for which the certiﬁca-
tion or documentation requirements were not provided,” and, in an-
tidumping cases, “require the posting of a cash deposit or bond on
those entries equal to the PRC-wide rate in effect at the time of entry,”
id. ¶ 6, or, for countervailing duty purposes, “require the posting of a
cash deposit or bond on those entries equal to the all others rate in
effect at the time of entry,” Final CVD Instructions ¶ 6. 7
This case concerns an importer that claims to have been unaware of
the certiﬁcation requirements and failed to provide timely-signed
certiﬁcations when CBP requested them almost two years after the
entries were made.
II. Greentech’s Entries
Greentech is an importer of solar modules exported to the United
States from V
ietnam and which incorporate solar cells allegedly pro-
duced in Vietnam. Am. Compl. ¶ 9. From July 2019 through October
2019, Greentech made 19 such entries of solar modules from Vietnam
(“the subject entries”). Id. ¶ 23. Greentech did not maintain importer
or exporter certiﬁcations (to the extent the latter were necessary)
signed and dated as of the date of entry. See id. ¶¶ 26, 32. 8
CBP issued two extensions of liquidation for each of the subject
entries. See Conﬁd. Def.’s Resp. to Ct. Order Regarding the Status of
7 In September 2021, Commerce promulgated 19 C.F.R. § 351.228 setting forth, among
other things, a new regulation regarding certiﬁcation requirements. Regulations To Im-
prove Admin. and Enforcement of Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Laws , 86 Fed.
Reg. 52,300, 52,362–63 (Dep’t Commerce Sept. 20, 2021) (ﬁnal rule) (“ Preamble”). The
regulation went into effect on October 20, 2021, after the subject entries were made. See id.
at 52,300. Commerce described the new regulation as being adopted “to codify and enhance
Commerce’s existing authority and practice” with respect to certiﬁcations. Id. at 52,302.
8 Whether the exporter certiﬁcation requirement applied to the subject entries
[[                ]]. See Def.’s Mot. at 10–12.
53  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 52]
Entries from July 2019 to August 2021 at 2, ECF No. 27.9 On June 10,
2021, CBP issued a request for information (“RFI”) to Greentech
regarding two of the subject entries and in which CBP requested
“documentation to show the products imported are exempt from AD/
CVD duties or out of scope.” Am. Compl., Ex. 3, ECF No. 11–2. CBP
stated that “[s]ome of this documentation includes but is not limited
to” the importer/exporter certiﬁcations required by Commerce and
other documentation such as certiﬁcates of origin for both the solar
cells and modules as well as production and shipping records. Id., Ex.
3. Greentech provided an importer certiﬁcation dated after the RFI
and additional documentation. See id. ¶¶ 26, 31; id., Ex. 4, ECF No.
11–2 (email communications between a CBP official and Greentech’s
customs broker concerning Greentech’s responses to the RFI).10
On August 31, 2021, CBP issued a Notice of Action to Greentech.
Id., Ex. 5, ECF No. 11–2. In the notice, CBP explained that it was
suspending liquidation of the subject entries and requiring cash de-
posits at the PRC-wide rate for the AD Order and the all-others rate
for the CVD Order. See id. CBP explained that it was acting pursuant
to Commerce’s instructions accompanying the agency’s preliminary
antidumping and countervailing duty solar cell investigation deter-
minations. See id. (citing Message No. 2153302 (June 1, 2012) (pre-
lim. AD instructions), and Message No. 2163303 (June 11, 2012)
(prelim. CVD instructions)). 11 CBP noted that Greentech had pro-
vided certiﬁcates dated after the RFI and thus failed to provide “the
proper documents.” Id. CBP stated that Greentech was free to “pro-
test the additional duties upon liquidation.” Id. CBP subsequently
issued invoices to Greentech in connection with the AD/CVD cash
deposits. See id. ¶ 35.12 Thereafter, CBP liquidated the subject entries
9 Greentech does not dispute that the extensions occurred. Greentech, however, character-
izes the extensions as “improper” and requests the court to “nullify” the extensions and
order reliquidation without regard to AD/CVD duties. Pl. [Greentech’s] Resp. to Def.’s Resp.
to Ct. Order Regarding the Status of Entries from July 2019 to August 2021 at 4, ECF No.
29. The court declines to consider Greentech’s request. Greentech has neither alleged a
legal or factual basis for challenging the extensions of liquidation in its amended complaint
nor established the court’s jurisdiction to entertain this newly asserted claim. Cf. Chemsol,
LLC v. United States, 755 F.3d 1345, 1353–54 (Fed. Cir. 2014) (explaining that challenges
to CBP’s ﬁnal liquidation and “any interim decisions merged therein” may be adjudicated,
if at all, pursuant to the court’s section 1581(a) jurisdiction).
10 In one email, Greentech stated that it was unaware of the certiﬁcation requirement. Am.
Compl., Ex. 4 (Greentech’s response to the RFI); see also Pl.’s Resp. at 1 (“Greentech was
unaware of the certiﬁcation requirement at the time of shipment and import . . . .”).
11 Commerce’s preliminary AD/CVD instructions are identical in relevant respects to Com-
merce’s ﬁnal AD/CVD instructions. Compare Am. Compl., Ex. 2, ECF No. 11–2 (Message No.
2153302 (June 1, 2012)), and Def.’s Mot., Ex. 3, ECF No. 15–3 (Message No. 2163303 (June
11, 2012)), with Final AD Instructions, and Final CVD Instructions.
12 CBP invoiced Greentech for almost [[   ]] dollars in duties. Pl.’s Resp., Att. 1; see also
Am. Compl., Ex. 6 (CBP’s invoices to Greentech).
54 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 53]
inclusive of the invoiced AD/CVD duties. See, e.g., id., Ex. 7 (Part 1),
ECF No. 11–3 (documenting the date of liquidation for one of the
entries).13
On November 12, 2021, Greentech submitted a letter to CBP pro-
viding additional information regarding the subject entries. Id., Ex. 7
(Part 1) at Att. 2. Greentech also protested CBP’s liquidation of the
subject entries and, for one protest, ﬁled an application for further
review. See id., Ex. 7 (Parts 1–14), ECF Nos. 11–3 to 11–16 (docu-
menting the protests); Def.’s Mot., Ex. 1 (Decl. of Merari Ortiz (Aug.
25. 2023) (“Ortiz Decl.”)) ¶¶ 3–4, ECF No. 15–1.
On June 5, 2023, CBP requested additional information from
Greentech regarding two of the subject entries in order to evaluate
Greentech’
s claimed exemption from AD/CVD duties. Ortiz Decl. ¶¶
8–9. In July 2023, Greentech provided CBP with information regard-
ing one entry and informed CBP that it was gathering information
regarding the second entry. See id. ¶ 10. CBP suspended action on
Greentech’s protests and application for further review when Green-
tech commenced this case. See id. ¶¶ 6–7, 11; 19 U.S.C. § 1515(c). 14
III. Procedural History
On June 9, 2023, Greentech commenced this case through the
concurrent ﬁling of a summons and complaint. Summons, ECF No.
1; Compl., ECF No. 4. 15 On June 27, 2023, Greentech ﬁled an
amended complaint to correct a typographical error. Am. Compl.
13 The Government indicates that CBP liquidated the subject entries pursuant to the
automatic liquidation instructions for the period covering December 1, 2018, through
November 30, 2019. See Def.’s Mot. at 11 (citing Def.’s Mot., Ex. 8, ECF No. 15–8 (Message
No. 0062401 (Mar. 2, 2020)) (“Auto Liq. Instructions”)). Those instructions address entries
covered by the AD/CVD Orders that were made during the period of review and as to which
no review was requested. See Auto Liq. Instructions ¶¶ 1–2.
14 Section 1515(c) provides:
If an action is commenced in the Court of International Trade that arises out of a protest
or an application for further review, all administrative action pertaining to such protest
or application shall terminate and any administrative action taken subsequent to the
commencement of the action is null and void.
15 Prior to commencing this case, Greentech had “not paid any of the outstanding bills for
[the subject entries].” Ortiz Decl. ¶ 12.
55  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 54]
[Redline Version], ECF No. 11–1. 16 Greentech invokes the court’s
jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1581(i) “to challenge certain
instructions sent by Commerce to CBP, as applied to Greentech.” Id.
¶ 12. Greentech alleges that it was “adversely affected or aggrieved by
the actions of Commerce and CBP within the meaning of [5 U.S.C. §
702].” Id. ¶ 17.
Greentech’s amended complaint asserts three claims. Count One,
titled “Commerce’
s Certiﬁcation Provision as Applied to Greentech Is
Unlawful,” alleges as follows:
Under U.S. law, AD and CVD duties can only be imposed when
Commerce investigates and ﬁnds the existence of dumping or
countervailable subsidies and the U.S. International T
rade
Commission investigates and ﬁnds a domestic industry has been
injured or is threatened with injury by reason of the imports
from the country subject to the investigation.
Id. ¶ 38 (citing 19 U.S.C. §§ 1671, 1673, et seq.). Count One further
alleges:
Defendant seeks to impose AD and CVD duties on solar module
imports from V
ietnam even though there are no dumping, sub-
sidy, or injury ﬁndings pertaining to imports from that country,
and no ﬁnding of circumvention pertaining to those entries, even
though Greentech submitted documentation to CBP showing
that the solar modules in question were not subject to the AD/
CVD orders on China. The lack of a certiﬁcate dated at the time
of shipment or entry cannot alter the clear and unambiguous
requirements of U.S. law.
Id. ¶ 39.
Count Two, titled “Defendant’s Imposition of AD/CVD Duties Based
Solely on Greentech’
s Failure to Provide Contemporaneously Dated
Certiﬁcates, When Greentech Submitted Ample Documentation
Showing the Imports Were Not Subject to the China AD/CVD Orders,
Is Unlawful,” alleges as follows:
16 During the course of this litigation, the court expressed concern with Greentech’s overly
inclusive bracketing of what appeared to constitute public information in the sealed exhib-
its attached to the amended complaint, resulting in overly inclusive bracketing in the
Government’s conﬁdential motion to dismiss. See Order (Feb. 26, 2024), ECF No. 36; Order
(Mar. 5, 2024), ECF No. 40. In responsive ﬁlings, Greentech has indicated that some of this
information may be made public and has submitted revised exhibits. See Pl. [Greentech’s]
Resp. to the Ct.’s Feb. 26, 2024 Order, ECF Nos. 38 (public), 39 (conﬁd.); Pl. [Greentech’s]
Am. Resp. to the Ct.’s Mar. 5, 2024 Order, ECF Nos. 51 (conﬁd.), 52 (public). For ease of
reference, while the court cites to the original versions of Greentech’s conﬁdential amended
complaint in ECF No. 11, the exhibits appended thereto, and the Government’s motion to
dismiss in ECF No. 15, the court accounts for Greentech’s responses when identifying
business proprietary information.
56 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 55]
Assuming arguendo Commerce could lawfully require Green-
tech to have certiﬁcation[s] for its imports from Vietnam, at
their core, the certiﬁcations Commerce requires are merely
signed statements by the importer and exporter that the mer-
chandise does not contain solar cells from China. But the com-
mercial documentation Greentech submitted is far more reliable
and probative of the country of production and origin than a
mere self-serving statement. Indeed, [Commerce’s] instructions
identify commercial documentation to conﬁrm the accuracy of
the certiﬁcations. Under those circumstances, Commerce’s cer-
tiﬁcation provision and instructions were unlawful because they
led to the imposition of AD and CVD duties on Greentech’s
imports from Vietnam.
Id. ¶ 41.
Count Three, titled “Defendant’s Fine is Excessive and Violates the
Eighth Amendment of the United States’ Constitution,” alleges just
that—that “the penalty Defendant seeks to collect is excessive and,
thus, violates the Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.” Id. ¶
43.
By way of relief, Greentech requests the court to 1) hold unlawful
Commerce’s certiﬁcation requirement “as applied to Greentech’s im-
ports of solar modules from Vietnam,” or, “[i]n the alternative,” hold
that the imposition of AD/CVD duties is an unconstitutional excessive
ﬁne; 2) “refund any AD or CVD deposits collected and withdraw all
requests for payment for AD or CVD duties”; 3) order the Government
to reliquidate the subject entries without regard to AD/CVD duties;
and 4) grant any additional relief deemed appropriate, including
attorney fees. Id. at 13.
The court heard oral argument on the Government’s motion on
March 20, 2024. See Docket Entry, ECF No. 54.
STANDARD OF REVIEW
To adjudicate a case, a court must have subject-matter jurisdiction
over the claims presented. Steel Co. v. Citizens for a Better Env’t, 523
U.S. 83, 94–95 (1998). Plaintiff bears the burden of establishing
subject-matter jurisdiction. Norsk Hydro Can., Inc. v. United States ,
472 F.3d 1347, 1355 (Fed. Cir. 2006). The scope of section 1581(i)
jurisdiction “is strictly limited” in order to “preserve[ ] the congres-
sionally mandated procedures and safeguards provided in the other
subsections.” Erwin Hymer Grp. N. Am., Inc. v. United States , 930
F.3d 1370, 1374 (Fed. Cir. 2019) (alteration in original) (citations
57  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 56]
omitted). Thus, when the plaintiff asserts jurisdiction pursuant to 28
U.S.C. § 1581(i), it “bears the burden of showing that another sub-
section is either unavailable or manifestly inadequate .” Id. at 1375.
Because the pending motion to dismiss rests on the availability of
jurisdiction pursuant to another subsection, and therefore challenges
the existence of jurisdiction, “the factual allegations in the complaint
are not controlling and only uncontroverted factual allegations are
accepted as true.” Shoshone Indian Tribe of Wind River Rsrv. v.
United States, 672 F.3d 1021, 1030 (Fed. Cir. 2012).
DISCUSSION
I. Legal Framework
“Subject matter jurisdiction is a threshold inquiry,” without which
the court may not reach the merits of Defendant’s arguments for
dismissal for failure to state a claim. United States v. Robert E.
Landweer & Co., 36 CIT 200, 202, 816 F. Supp. 2d 1364, 1367 (2012).
The USCIT, like all federal courts, is a “court[] of limited jurisdiction
marked out by Congress.” Norcal/Crosetti Foods, Inc. v. United
States, 963 F.2d 356, 358 (Fed. Cir. 1992) (quoting Aldinger v. How-
ard, 427 U.S. 1, 15 (1976)). The court’s jurisdiction is governed by 28
U.S.C. §§ 1581 and 1582 . See id.
Relevant here, section 1581(a) grants the court jurisdiction to re-
view a denied protest. 28 U.S.C. § 1581(a); 19 U.S.C. § 1515. Section
1515 governs CBP’s review of protests ﬁled under 19 U.S.C. § 1514.
19 U.S.C. § 1515(a). Section 1514(a), in turn, sets forth the exclusive
list of CBP decisions that are subject to protest. 19 U.S.C. §
1514(a)(1)–(7).17
17 Section 1514(a) of Title 19 states, with exceptions not relevant here, that
any clerical error, mistake of fact, or other inadvertence, whether or not resulting from
or contained in an electronic transmission, adverse to the importer, in any entry,
liquidation, or reliquidation, and, decisions of the Customs Service, including the legal-
ity of all orders and ﬁndings entering into the same, as to--
. . .
(2) the classiﬁcation and rate and amount of duties chargeable;
(3) all charges or exactions of whatever character within the jurisdiction of the
Secretary of the Treasury;
. . .
(5) the liquidation or reliquidation of an entry, or reconciliation as to the issues
contained therein, or any modiﬁcation thereof, including the liquidation of an entry,
pursuant to either section 1500 of this title or section 1504 of this title;
. . .
shall be ﬁnal and conclusive upon all persons (including the United States and any
officer thereof) unless a protest is ﬁled in accordance with this section, or unless a civil
action contesting the denial of a protest, in whole or in part, is commenced in the United
States Court of International Trade . . . .
58 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 57]
Section 1581(i)(1) grants the court jurisdiction to entertain “any
civil action commenced against the United States, its agencies, or its
officers, that arises out of any law of the United States providing for—
. . . (B) tariffs, duties, fees, or other taxes on the importation of
merchandise for reasons other than the raising of revenue,” and “(D)
administration and enforcement with respect to the matters referred
to in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of this paragraph and subsec-
tions (a)–(h) of this section.” 28 U.S.C. § 1581(i)(1)(B), (D).
It is well settled that “[a] party may not expand a court’s jurisdic-
tion by creative pleading.” Norsk Hydro, 472 F
.3d at 1355. Instead,
the court must “look to the true nature of the action . . . in determin-
ing jurisdiction of the appeal.” Id. (citation omitted). Relevant to that
inquiry is an understanding of the relief that a plaintiff seeks. See
Sunpreme Inc. v. United States, 892 F.3d 1186, 1193 (Fed. Cir. 2018)
(explaining that the plaintiff’s requested relief is “associated with a
scope ruling determination” that may be judicially reviewable pursu-
ant to 28 U.S.C. § 1581(c) such that the plaintiff could not invoke 28
U.S.C. § 1581(i)).
II. Parties’ Contentions
The Government contends that Greentech’s challenge to “Com-
merce’
s certiﬁcation requirement as applied to Greentech” may only
be raised pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1581(a) following any denial of
Greentech’s protests. Def.’s Mot. at 18 (emphasis added) (quoting Am.
Compl. ¶ 36); see also id. at 23–24 (arguing that Greentech has failed
to exhaust its protest procedures). Reading Greentech’s amended
complaint primarily to challenge certain actions taken, or ﬁndings
made, by CBP, see id. at 19–20, Defendant asserts that Greentech has
not established that 28 U.S.C. § 1581(a) jurisdiction is manifestly
inadequate to resolve those claims, id. at 22. The Government avers
that “Congress has established separate statutory roles for CBP and
Commerce in administering and enforcing the antidumping and
countervailing duty scheme” with corresponding “separate methods
for challenging CBP’s and Commerce’s respective decisions.” Id.
The Government further contends that it does not presently “dis-
pute that Greentech could invoke section 1581(i) residual jurisdiction
to challenge Commerce’s certiﬁcation requirement imposed in the
ﬁnal determinations, to the extent that Greentech was not— and
could not have been —an interested party to the investigations in
which Commerce issued that requirement.” Id. at 24 n.10. 18 The
18 Greentech argues at length that jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1581(c) is not, and
was not, available to Greentech to challenge Commerce’s certiﬁcation requirement. Pl.’s
Resp. at 10–13. The Government does not presently dispute this point. Def.’s Mot. at 24
n.10; Def.’s Reply at 5.
59  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 58]
Government argues, however, that “Greentech has not pursued a
standalone challenge” to Commerce’s certiﬁcation requirement and
that any such challenge “would be untimely.” Id. In connection with
this argument, the Government asserts that CBP acts in a “ministe-
rial” capacity when implementing Commerce’s instructions but that
“any injury associated with CBP’s application of the certiﬁcation
requirement—and ultimate liquidation—must be raised (if at all)
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1581(a).” Id. at 27.
Characterizing the Government’s statement that CBP acts minis-
terially in carrying out Commerce’
s instructions as a concession, Pl.’s
Resp. at 9, Greentech contends that 28 U.S.C. § 1581(a) jurisdiction is
unavailable to resolve the pending claims, id. at 5–9. Greentech
further asserts that, in this case, it seeks to challenge Commerce’s
authority to instruct CBP to apply the AD/CVD Orders to solar
modules that incorporate non-Chinese origin solar cells. See id. at 1.
Rather than “a run-of-the-mill challenge to a routine CBP decision,”
Greentech contends, “this case is one of ﬁrst impression” that raises
the question “whether Commerce exceeded its authority” when it
imposed the certiﬁcation requirement. Id. at 2.
In its reply brief, the Government contends that any challenge to
Commerce’
s certiﬁcation requirement must be dismissed as untimely
and any challenge to CBP’s application of the certiﬁcation require-
ment must be dismissed for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. Def.’s
Reply at 5–15.
III. Analysis
The court begins by ascertaining the true nature of Greentech’s
action and whether the requested relief may instead be obtained
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1581(a). See Sunpreme, 892 F
.3d at 1193;
Norsk Hydro, 472 F.3d at 1355.
Greentech’s amended complaint contains a mix of factual allega-
tions and legal conclusions regarding Commerce’
s imposition of the
certiﬁcation requirements and CBP’s application of those require-
ments to Greentech. See, e.g., Am. Compl. ¶ 3 (alleging that AD/CVD
duties “cannot be collected on imports” absent affirmative dumping or
subsidization and injury ﬁndings); id. ¶ 17 (stating that Greentech
was “adversely affected or aggrieved by the actions of Commerce and
CBP”) (emphases added); id. ¶¶ 27–28 (referring to the imposition of
AD/CVD duties despite Greentech’s alleged nonuse of solar cells from
China and stating that certiﬁcations should not have been required
“[u]nder those facts”); id. at 11 (in Count One, referencing Com-
60 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 59]
merce’s certiﬁcation requirement “as applied to Greentech”); id. at 12
(in Count Two, referencing the imposition of duties despite Green-
tech’s “ample documentation”).
Despite the lack of clarity in the amended complaint regarding the
precise nature of Greentech’
s legal challenge, Greentech’s requested
relief is clear: Greentech seeks to avoid liability for duties pursuant to
the AD/CVD Orders in connection with the subject entries, and only
those entries. Id. at 13 (prayer for relief). Greentech does not pres-
ently allege a facial challenge to Commerce’s certiﬁcation require-
ments or seek broader relief in the form of vacatur of the require-
ments as to any entity besides Plaintiff. Rather, Greentech seeks a
narrow judicial holding that the “certiﬁcation requirement and in-
structions as applied to [the subject entries]” are unlawful. Id. (em-
phasis added). 19 The alleged basis for that holding is speciﬁc to
Greentech: the “documentation showing that the merchandise was
produced [in] and exported from Vietnam.” Id. ¶ 5. The question,
then, is whether these claims may be addressed by CBP such that
Greentech can obtain its requested relief by concluding the protest
proceedings and, if necessary, seeking judicial review pursuant to 28
U.S.C. § 1581(a).
It is well-settled that “a protestable decision” giving rise to section
1581(a) jurisdiction requires CBP to have “engage[d] in some sort of
decision-making process.” U.S. Shoe Corp. v. United States, 114 F.3d
1564, 1569 (Fed. Cir. 1997), aff’d sub nom. United States v. U.S. Shoe
Corp., 523 U.S. 360 (1998). Ministerial actions are not protestable
because CBP “must have the ‘authority to grant relief in [the] protest
action.’” Indus. Chems., Inc. v. United States , 941 F.3d 1368, 1371
(Fed. Cir. 2019) (alteration in original) (quoting Gilda Indus., Inc. v.
United States, 446 F.3d 1271, 1276 (Fed. Cir. 2006)). At this time, the
court is unaware of any case addressing CBP’s role in connection with
Commerce’s certiﬁcation requirements pursuant to the AD/CVD Or-
ders. The court agrees with the Government, however, that Green-
19 Greentech characterizes its claims differently in response to the Government’s motion to
dismiss. There, Greentech tries to limit its claims to the allegedly unlawful action of
Commerce alone. See, e.g., Pl.’s Resp. at 3 (“Greentech brought this case to challenge the
lawfulness of Commerce’s certiﬁcation requirement that CBP applied to the [subject en-
tries].”). Referencing a requirement that CBP applied is different from referencing a re-
quirement as applied because the latter suggests the fact-speciﬁc application of the require-
ment to a certain entity. See, e.g., Odyssey Logs. and Tech. Corp. v. Iancu , 959 F.3d 1104,
1112 (Fed. Cir. 2020) (comparing a facial challenge to an as-applied challenge). Greentech
has not, however, requested to further amend its complaint to set out this facial challenge
with clarity and speciﬁcity. The court may not consider Greentech’s characterization of its
claims in its response brief as operative to the extent they differ from the allegations of the
amended complaint. See, e.g., Statewide Bonding, Inc. v. U.S. Dep’t Homeland Sec., 980 F.3d
109, 117 n.5 (D.C. Cir. 2020) (“[I]t ‘is axiomatic that a complaint may not be amended by
briefs in opposition to a motion to dismiss.’” (citation omitted)).
61  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 60]
tech’s claims are amenable to protest and, thus, section 1581(a) ju-
risdiction would be available to Greentech and would not be
manifestly inadequate.
The instructions at issue contemplate ministerial action by CBP, if
at all, with respect to suspending liquidation and rate advancing the
relevant entries. However
, while Plaintiff and Defendant appear to
agree that CBP had no choice but to suspend liquidation and require
Greentech to post cash deposits when Greentech was unable to pro-
duce certiﬁcations signed as of the date of importation, 20 the certiﬁ-
cation language set forth in paragraph three of the instructions po-
tentially allows some leeway in the timing requirement. That
language states that the importer signing the certiﬁcation “under-
stand[s] that this certiﬁcation should be completed at the time of
entry, Final AD Instructions ¶ 3 (emphasis added), where “should”
may be considered “directory,” not “mandatory,” see New England
Tank Indus. of N.H., Inc. v. United States, 861 F.2d 685, 694 (Fed. Cir.
1988). However, even if Greentech’s failure in that regard required
CBP to suspend liquidation and collect cash deposits, the instructions
are silent on what CBP should do when an importer lacks timely-
signed certiﬁcations but can provide documentation potentially sup-
porting the claimed country of origin and which, if so proven, would
demonstrate that the imported products are not covered by the AD/
CVD Orders.21
The U.S. Supreme Court “consistently has held that some form of
hearing is required before an individual is ﬁnally deprived of a prop-
erty interest.” Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 333 (1976). “[I]m-
porters in antidumping [and countervailing duty] proceedings are
20 During oral argument, the Government responded to the court’s questions regarding
CBP’s authority to make a country-of-origin determination during the protest proceeding by
suggesting that CBP had no such authority and that the lack of a certiﬁcation was
dispositive. Oral Arg. 38:00–39:00, 46:00–46:20, available at https://www.cit.uscourts.gov/
audio-recordings-select-public-court-proceedings (reﬂecting the time stamp from the re-
cording). The Government’s statement is difficult to reconcile with its assertion that section
1581(a) jurisdiction is available to Greentech and is not manifestly inadequate to obtain the
relief that Greentech seeks. See, e.g., Def.’s Mot. at 14; Oral Arg. 41:00–42:00. Furthermore,
the Government relied on the instructions to support this contention, Oral Arg.
39:50–40:15, but as discussed further in, the instructions do not speak to what CBP may do,
or even should do, after suspending liquidation. Plaintiff, for its part, relies on the notion
that CBP acts ministerially when implementing Commerce’s liquidation instructions. Pl.’s
Resp. at 8. The instructions at issue here are not, however, liquidation instructions; they are
cash deposit instructions. See Final AD Instructions ¶ 8; Final CVD Instructions ¶ 8.
21 Paragraphs ﬁve and six of the instructions state that the “certiﬁcation must be completed,
signed, and dated at the time of the entry of the panels/modules” and that “[i]f the importer
does not provide the aforementioned required certiﬁcation or documentation at [CBP’s]
request, CBP is instructed to suspend all unliquidated entries for which the certiﬁcation or
documentation requirements were not provided, and require the posting of a cash deposit
on those entries.” Final AD Instructions ¶¶ 5–6 (emphasis added). The instructions do not
preclude the possibility of liquidation without regard to AD and CVD duties based on
subsequently provided information.
62 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 61]
entitled to procedural due process,” Royal Brush Mfg., Inc. v. United
States, 75 F.4th 1250, 1257 (Fed. Cir. 2023), which includes “the right
to notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard,” id. at 1257 n.5
(quoting PSC VSMPO-Avisma Corp. v. United States , 688 F.3d 751,
761–66 (Fed. Cir. 2012)). Relevant to this question, the Government
cites to other Commerce proceedings to establish that Commerce’s
certiﬁcation requirements are part of an existing practice. Def.’s Mot.
at 33 n.12 (citing, inter alia, Sugar from Mexico, 79 Fed. Reg. 78,044
(Dep’t Commerce Dec. 29, 2014) (suspension of countervailing duty
investigation); and Low Enriched Uranium From France , 67 Fed.
Reg. 6,680 (Dep’t Commerce Feb. 13, 2002) (notice of am. ﬁnal deter-
mination of sales at less than fair value and antidumping duty or-
der)). In those proceedings, however, Commerce established certiﬁca-
tion requirements on importers or exporters of merchandise from the
subject countries. See Sugar From Mexico , 79 Fed. Reg. at 78,048
(requiring certiﬁcations from Mexican exporters that customers agree
not to engage in prohibited circumvention activities); Low Enriched
Uranium From France, 67 Fed. Reg. at 6,680 (requiring certiﬁcations
from importers and end-users of low enriched uranium from France
that the imported product meets the criteria for exclusion because it
is “owned by a foreign utility end-user and imported into the United
States by or for such end-user solely for [speciﬁed] purposes”). By
contrast, this case involves certiﬁcation requirements published in
2012 in the Solar Cells From China proceeding that apply ostensibly
to nonsubject merchandise imported into the United States from
countries other than China. Thus, this case implicates the procedures
required before the Government may extract substantial AD/CVD
duties from importers, such as Greentech, in this speciﬁc scenario.
The Government argues that the statutory obligation for Greentech
to use “reasonable care” in making its entries required Greentech to
familiarize itself with the AD/CVD Orders. Def.’s Mot. at 27–28
(citing 19 U.S.C. § 1484(a)(1)). 22 Plaintiff disputes this argument.
Pl.’s Resp. at 16–17. The requirements attendant to section 1484 in
these circumstances are not squarely before the court. As such, the
court need not address the Government’s position that reasonable
care required importers to review Solar Cells From China simply
because that proceeding “cover[s] solar panels assembled in any coun-
try using solar cells from China.” Def.’s Mot. at 28 (second emphasis
added). The point here is that no agency has determined, as a factual
matter, that Greentech’s entries incorporated “solar cells from
China.” The Government’s reliance on 19 U.S.C. § 1484(a)(1) suggests
22 The Government also cites to the CVD Final. Def.’s Mot. at 28. That determination does
not discuss the certiﬁcation requirements. See CVD Final, 77 Fed. Reg. 63,788.
63  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 62]
that it does not consider any further process to be required for im-
porters such as Greentech but offers no explanation why that position
comports with principles of due process. Thus, while noncompliance
with the certiﬁcation requirements may give rise to a rebuttable
presumption of Chinese origin solar cells, effectuated by suspension
of liquidation, the Government must provide recourse for importers to
rebut that presumption.23
When CBP informed Greentech via the Notice of Action of the steps
taken to suspend liquidation, CBP stated that Greentech could con-
test the assessment of AD/CVD duties by protesting the liquidation.
See Am. Compl., Ex. 5. Shortly thereafter, CBP began liquidating the
subject entries. See, e.g., id., Ex. 7 (Part 1). 24 CBP acted consistent
with its stated view that Greentech could contest the assessment of
duties via protest when, on June 5, 2023, as part of CBP’s evaluation
of the protests, CBP requested additional information from Green-
tech relevant to country of origin. Ortiz Decl. ¶¶ 8–9. CBP only
suspended action on the protest when Greentech commenced this
case. See id. ¶ 11 (citing 19 U.S.C. § 1515(c)). Thus, it appears that
CBP reasonably intended to resolve Greentech’s claims during the
protest proceeding and thus provide Greentech with a bona ﬁde
opportunity to avoid liability, notwithstanding that the Government
has not clearly stated that CBP had the authority to do so and, during
oral argument, suggested that CBP may lack such authority. Oral
Arg. 38:00–39:00, 46:00–46:20.25 In any event, it may be the case that
23 The court does not disregard the Government’s circumvention concerns underlying the
certiﬁcation requirements, particularly when the country of export has a third country case
number under the AD/CVD Orders. Oral Arg. 39:00–39:45. However, an importer with
knowledge (or that otherwise should know) that the solar panels it is importing from a third
country incorporate Chinese solar cells would, if it made those entries as Type 01/
nonsubject merchandise, risk substantial penalties pursuant to 19 U.S.C. § 1592 or an
evasion determination pursuant to 19 U.S.C. § 1517, or both. Both of those statutes require
certain procedures before CBP may affirmatively determine that a violation has occurred.
See 19 U.S.C. §§ 1517(b), 1592(b). The Government offers no persuasive reason why due
process requires fewer protections here.
24 Indeed, the automatic liquidation instructions that CBP apparently used here apply to
entries made by ﬁrms that had notice of the opportunity to request a review of their entries
for the proper ascertainment of duties and did not do so. See Def.’s Mot., Ex. 8; Antidumping
or Countervailing Duty Order, Finding, or Suspended Investigation; Opportunity To Req.
Admin. Review, 84 Fed. Reg. 66,880, 66,882 (Dep’t Commerce Dec. 6, 2019) (applicable to
the AD Order); Antidumping or Countervailing Duty Order, Finding, or Suspended Inves-
tigation; Opportunity To Req. Admin. Review, 85 Fed. Reg. 77,431, 77,433 (Dep’t Commerce
Dec. 2, 2020) (applicable to the CVD Order).
25 For example, the Government argues that the protest remedy is adequate for Greentech’s
challenge “disput[ing] CBP’s adherence to Commerce’s instructions.” Def.’s Mot. at 19. It is
difficult to ascertain what relief Greentech may obtain if, as the Government asserts, CBP
acted ministerially in this case, see id. at 27. Challenging some procedural aspect of CBP’s
application of the instructions to Greentech is likely of no moment if that challenge does not
allow Greentech to contest the applicability of the AD/CVD duties announced in the Notice
of Action.
64 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 63]
CBP erred in liquidating Greentech’s entries without ﬁrst consulting
with Commerce about the propriety of doing so.
Commerce’s recent regulation set forth in 19 C.F.R. § 351.228 is
instructive regarding the procedure CBP 
should have followed and,
indeed, may have been intending to follow. While the regulation is not
directly applicable, see supra note 7 (noting the effective date), Com-
merce has stated that 19 C.F.R. § 351.228 “merely codiﬁes existing
practice,” Preamble, 86 Fed. Reg. at 52,363. Thus, section 351.228 is
indicative of the procedures that should have been followed here. The
regulation provides, inter alia:
(b) Consequences for no provision of a certiﬁcate; provision of a
false certiﬁcate.
(1) The Secretary may instruct U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection to suspend liquidation of entries of the importer or
entries associated with the other interested party and require
a cash deposit of estimated duties at the applicable rate if:
 (i) The importer or other interested party has not provided
to the Secretary or U.S. Customs and Border Protection, as
appropriate, the certiﬁcation described under paragraph (a)
of this section either as required or upon request for such
entries; or
 (ii) The importer or other interested party provided a certi-
ﬁcation in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section for
such entries, but the certiﬁcation contained materially false,
ﬁctitious or fraudulent statements or representations, or
contained material omissions.
19 C.F.R. § 351.228(b).26 The regulation further provides that Com-
merce “may also instruct [CBP] to assess antidumping or counter-
vailing duties . . . at the applicable rate,” id. § 351.228(b)(2), which is
consistent with the notion that there must be a process for demon-
strating, in appropriate circumstances, nonapplication of antidump-
ing or countervailing duties, beyond the certiﬁcation requirement
itself.
In response to concerns that the regulation is redundant or in-
fringes on CBP’s existing authority, or could lead to “opposing or
contradictory conclusions” when “both CBP and Commerce investi-
26 Paragraph (a) of the regulation allows Commerce to determine “that an importer or other
interested party shall . . . [m]aintain a certiﬁcation for entries of merchandise into the . . .
United States”; “[p]rovide a certiﬁcation by electronic means at the time of entry or entry
summary”; or “[o]therwise demonstrate compliance with a certiﬁcation requirement as
determined by [Commerce], in consultation with [CBP].” 19 C.F.R. § 351.228(a) (emphasis
added).
65  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 64]
gate certiﬁcations,” Commerce stated that although “CBP has its own
independent authority to address import documentation related to
negligence, gross negligence, or fraud,” the “enforcement of the AD/
CVD laws, including taking steps to prevent evasion and circumven-
tion of AD and CVD orders by producers, exporters, and importers, is
well within Commerce’s authority.” Preamble, 86 Fed. Reg. at 52,364.
Commerce also stated that “a formal ﬁnding by CBP [is not] required
for Commerce to determine, within its own authority, that [a] certi-
ﬁcation is deﬁcient and unreliable,” and that “[w]hether a certiﬁca-
tion contains ‘material’ or ‘fraudulent’ information is a determination
that would be made by Commerce pursuant to its own authority and
consideration of the normal meaning of those terms (although deter-
minations by other agencies may be informative).” Id. Accordingly,
when promulgating the regulation, Commerce maintained for itself
an ongoing role in resolving issues that arise when dealing with
compliance with the certiﬁcation requirements. 27
Most relevant here, this role is reﬂected in subparagraph two of the
regulation, which addresses the consequences for noncompliance. In
addition to instructing CBP to suspend liquidation and collect cash
deposits when an “importer or other interested party” fails to provide
certiﬁcations or provides certiﬁcations containing “materially false,
ﬁctitious or fraudulent statements or representations,” 19 C.F.R. §
351.228(b)(1)(i)–(ii), the regulation states that, “[u]nder paragraph
(b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, [Commerce] may also instruct [CBP] to
assess antidumping or countervailing duties, as the case may be, at
the applicable rate,” id. § 351.228(b)(2). The regulation thus suggests
that, when presented with noncompliance, Commerce will determine
whether to instruct CBP to liquidate the relevant entries inclusive of
AD/CVD duties and, thus, that decision is not CBP’s to make absent
consultation with, or involvement by, Commerce. While, in this case,
it is too late for CBP to remedy any missteps that occurred before
liquidation,28 CBP may, indeed must, work in concert with Commerce
to consider all relevant information in the course of resolving Green-
tech’s protests.
It is well-settled that section 1581(i) generally “may not be invoked
when jurisdiction under another subsection of [section] 1581 is or
27 This role is reﬂected in the instructions at issue here, which state that “records pertain-
ing to [the exporter’s] certiﬁcation may be subject to veriﬁcation by Department of Com-
merce officials.” Final AD Instructions ¶ 3 (emphasis added) (exporter certiﬁcation). That
language suggests that Commerce is the agency with the authority to decide whether an
exporter has adequately supported its certiﬁcation.
28 Liquidation is “the ﬁnal computation or ascertainment of duties.” 19 C.F.R. § 159.1. While
the ﬁnality of liquidation may be forestalled by protesting the liquidation and commencing
a civil action before the USCIT, see 19 U.S.C. § 1514(a), liquidation represents the “ﬁnal
challengeable event” in the life of an entry, Chemsol, 755 F.3d at 1350 (citations omitted).
66 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 65]
could have been available.” Sunpreme, 892 F.3d at 1191. Because the
court ﬁnds that section 1581(a) jurisdiction is available to Greentech
and is not manifestly inadequate, the court lacks section 1581(i)
jurisdiction with respect to Counts One and Two of Greentech’s
amended complaint.
Count Three will also be dismissed. Relief pursuant to Count Three
was requested in the alternative. See Am. Compl. at 13. Regarding
the underlying claim, the Government contends that, “consistent
with the overall antidumping and countervailing duty scheme, the
certiﬁcation requirement is solely remedial in nature” and therefore
the Excessive Fines Clause of the Eighth 
Amendment does not apply.
Def.’s Mot. at 34; see also Def.’s Reply at 19–20 (arguing that “the
certiﬁcation requirement serves the remedial purpose of protecting
against evasion of antidumping and countervailing duty orders”);
U.S. Const. amend. VIII (prohibiting the imposition of excessive
ﬁnes). Greentech contends that its claim must proceed because the
subject entries were of Vietnamese origin, the duties at issue are
punitive, not remedial, and the amount of duties imposed are dispro-
portional to the offense of not having timely-signed certiﬁcations. Pl.’s
Resp. at 19–29.
Insofar as Greentech may obtain the relief associated with Counts
One and T
wo via the opportunity to demonstrate nonliability for
AD/CVD duties, Count Three seeks no additional relief. As best the
court can ascertain, Count Three seeks relief in the event the Gov-
ernment seeks to impose AD/CVD duties on Greentech based solely
on the missing or untimely certiﬁcation(s) and without any evalua-
tion of the documentation that Greentech has submitted, or presum-
ably will submit, when protest proceedings resume. See Am. Compl.
¶¶ 43–44; Ortiz Decl. ¶ 10 (noting that Greentech was still compiling
information requested by CBP when CBP suspended action on the
protests).
To that end, the justiciability doctrine of ripeness “considers
whether ‘further factual development would signiﬁcantly advance
[the court’
s] ability to deal with the legal issues presented’ and
whether ‘the complained-of conduct has an “immediate and substan-
tial impact” on the plaintiff.’” Sandoz Inc. v. Amgen Inc. , 773 F.3d
1274, 1278 (Fed. Cir. 2014) (alteration in original) (citations omitted).
Further development is required here before Greentech can allege the
facts necessary to support this claim.
Greentech makes no allegation that the duties assessed at liquida-
tion rested on violations of the statutory scheme governing 
AD/CVD
duties. Greentech has acknowledged the absence of an Eighth
Amendment violation when duties are lawfully determined. Oral Arg.
67  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 66]
1:07:30–1:08:00. That principle was recently affirmed by the Federal
Circuit, which noted that “Commerce could typically dispose of [this]
constitutional issue by reviewing the rates for statutory compliance
(i.e., ﬁnding the rates not excessive).” Rimco Inc. v. United States, 98
F.4th 1046, 1054 (Fed. Cir. 2024). 29 The issue here, however, is
whether the Government may impose those duties based not on a
factual determination that Greentech’s entries contained Chinese
solar cells, but only on Greentech’s failure to submit timely-signed
certiﬁcations. Because further administrative proceedings relevant to
this question will take place, the court ﬁnds that Count Three must
be dismissed as unripe. 30 See Sandoz, 773 F.3d at 1278 (“A claim is
not ripe for adjudication if it rests upon contingent future events that
may not occur as anticipated, or indeed may not occur at all.” (citation
omitted)).
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
For the foregoing reasons, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion
to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction. Judgment will enter accordingly.
Dated: June 10, 2024
New York, New York
/s/ Mark A. Barnett
MARK A. BARNETT, CHIEF JUDGE
29 The Rimco court left open the possibility for “a scenario, however unlikely, where a
calculated rate might comply with statutory reasonableness but nonetheless violate the
excessive ﬁnes component of the Eighth Amendment.” 98 F.4th at 1055. The appellate court
explained, however, that “administrative exhaustion would still be required.” Id.
30 The court declines to address whether Greentech will be able to allege an Eighth
Amendment violation at the conclusion of the protest proceedings or what the appropriate
jurisdictional basis would be for such a claim.
68 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 67]
Slip Op. 24–75
EREG˘LI DEMIR VE C¸ELIK FABRIKALARI T.A.S¸., Plaintiff, v. U NITED STATES
INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION, Defendant, and U NITED STATES
STEEL CORPORATION, C LEVELAND CLIFFS INC., S TEEL DYNAMICS, I NC.,
SSAB E NTERPRISES, LLC, and N UCOR CORPORATION, Defendant-
Intervenors.
Before: Gary S. Katzmann, Judge
Court No. 22–00351
[ The court denies Plaintiff’s Motion for Judgment on the Agency Record. ]
Dated: June 20, 2024
David L. Simon, Law Office of David L. Simon, PLLC, of Washington, D.C., argued
for Plaintiff Ereg˘ li Demir ve C¸elik Fabrikalari T.A.S¸. With him on the brief was Mark
B. Lehnardt.
Spencer J. Toubia , Attorney-Advisor, U.S. International Trade Commission, of
Washington, D.C., argued for Defendant the United States International Trade Com-
mission. With him on the brief were Dominic L. Bianchi, General Counsel, and Andrea
C. Casson, Assistant General Counsel for Litigation.
Jeffrey D. Gerrish, Schagrin Associates, of Washington, D.C., argued for Defendant-
Intervenors United States Steel Corporation, Cleveland-Cliffs Inc., Steel Dynamics,
Inc., SSAB Enterprises, LLC, and Nucor Corporation. With him on the brief were Roger
B. Schagrin and Nicholas Phillips.
Thomas M. Beline and Sarah E. Shulman , Cassidy Levy Kent (USA) LLP, of
Washington, D.C., for Defendant-Intervenor United States Steel Corporation.
Alan H. Price, Christopher B. Weld, and Theodore P. Brackemyre, Wiley Rein LLP,
of Washington, D.C., for Defendant-Intervenor Nucor Corporation.
Stephen P. Vaughn, Neal Reynolds, and Barbara Medrado, King & Spalding LLP, of
Washington, D.C., for Defendant-Intervenor Cleveland-Cliffs Inc.
OPINION
Katzmann, Judge:
This case requires the court to peer into a kaleidoscope of admin-
istrative determinations related to the issuance of antidumping and
countervailing duty orders on imports of hot-rolled steel from Turkey.
In 2016, the U.S. Department of Commerce (“Commerce”) deter-
mined that hot-rolled steel ﬂat products imported from Turkey were
being sold in the United States at less than fair value. See Certain
Hot-Rolled Steel Flat Products From the Republic of Turkey: Final
Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value , 81 Fed. Reg. 53428
(Dep’t Com. Aug. 12, 2016) (“Original Antidumping Determination”).
The U.S. International Trade Commission (“Commission”), after con-
ducting its own investigation, determined that these less-than-fair-
value (“dumped”) import sales inﬂicted material injury on a U.S.
industry. Certain Hot-Rolled Steel Flat Products from Australia, Bra-
zil, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Turkey, and the United Kingdom,
69  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 68]
81 Fed. Reg. 66996 (ITC Sept. 29, 2016) (“ Original Determination”).
Commerce then issued an antidumping duty order. See Certain Hot-
Rolled Steel Flat Products From Australia, Brazil, Japan, the Repub-
lic of Korea, the Netherlands, the Republic of Turkey, and the United
Kingdom: Amended Final Affirmative Antidumping Determinations
for Australia, the Republic of Korea, and the Republic of Turkey and
Antidumping Duty Orders , 81 Fed. Reg. 67962 (Dep’t Com. Oct. 3,
2016) (“Antidumping Duty Order”).
Three and a half years later, Commerce determined that one (but
not all) of the Turkish importers of hot-rolled steel that the Commis-
sion had investigated was not in fact dumping merchandise. See
Certain Hot-Rolled Steel Flat Products From Turkey: Notice of Court
Decision Not in Harmony With the Amended Final Determination in
the Less-Than-Fair-Value Investigation; Notice of Amended Final De-
termination, Amended Antidumping Duty Order; Notice of Revocation
of Antidumping Duty Order in Part; and Discontinuation of the
2017–18 and 2018–19 Antidumping Duty Administrative Reviews, in
Part, 85 Fed. Reg. 29399 (Dep’t Com. May 15, 2020) (“ Amended
Antidumping Determination ”). The Commission then revisited its
original material-injury determination in a ﬁve-year “sunset” review.
See Hot-Rolled Steel From Australia, Brazil, Japan, Netherlands,
Russia, South Korea, Turkey, and the United Kingdom , 87 Fed. Reg.
74167 (ITC Dec. 2, 2022), P.R. 357 (“ Five-Year Determination”). The
Commission determined that revoking the antidumping order was
likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping and material
injury. See id.; see also 19 U.S.C. § 1675(c)(1).
In this case, Plaintiff Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalarti T.A.S.
(“Erdemir”),1 a Turkish producer of hot-rolled steel, argues in a Mo-
tion for Judgment on the Agency Record that the Commission’s Five-
Year Determination unlawfully fails to take proper account of Com-
merce’s Amended Antidumping Determination . See Compl., Dec. 26,
2022, ECF. No. 4.
The court concludes that the challenged elements of the Five-Year
Determination are supported by substantial evidence and in accor-
dance with law. The court accordingly enters Judgment on the Agency
Record for Defendant (the Commission) and Defendant-Intervenors.
1 To ensure internal consistency and to reduce the risk of transcription errors in electronic
publication formats, the court in this opinion (apart from this demonstrative footnote)
represents Turkish proper names without diacritics. See Assan Aluminyum Sanayi ve
Ticaret v. United States, 48 CIT __, __ n.1, Slip Op. 24–44, at 2 n.1 (Apr. 11, 2024). Thus, for
example, Ereg˘ li Demir ve C¸elik Fabrikalari T.A.S¸.” becomes “Eregli Demir ve Celik Fab-
rikalarti T.A.S.” and “C¸olakog˘ lu Dis Ticaret A.S¸.” becomes “Colakoglu Dis Ticaret A.S.”
70 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 69]
BACKGROUND
I. Legal and Regulatory Framework
A. Antidumping and Countervailing Duties
The Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, requires Commerce to order the
imposition of countervailing duties on imported merchandise upon
ﬁnding that “the government of a country or any public entity within
the territory of a country is providing, directly or indirectly, a coun-
tervailable subsidy with respect to the manufacture, production, or
export of” that merchandise. 19 U.S.C. § 1671(a)(1); see also id. §
1671e. Commerce is also required to order the imposition of anti-
dumping duties on imported merchandise that “is being, or is likely to
be, sold in the United States at less than its fair value.” Id. § 1673(1);
see also id. § 1673e. The amount of an antidumping duty that Com-
merce assesses is based on Commerce’s calculation of a “dumping
margin,” which is “the amount by which the normal value exceeds the
export price or constructed export price of the subject merchandise.”
Id. § 1677(35)(A).
Commerce cannot impose either type of duty, however, unless the
Commission separately determines (as relevant here) that “an indus-
try in the United States (i) is materially injured, or (ii) is threatened
with material injury . . . by reason of imports of that merchandise or
by reason of sales (or the likelihood of sales) of [the subject] merchan-
dise for importation.” Id. §§ 1671(a)(2), 1673(2).
B. The Commission’s Five-Year Review
Every ﬁve years after the publication of an antidumping or coun-
tervailing duty order, the Commission is required to conduct a “sun-
set” review of that order. Id. § 1675(c)(1); Nucor Corp. v. United
States, 32 CIT 1380, 1385, 594 F. Supp. 2d 1320, 1333 (2008), aff’d,
601 F.3d 1291 (Fed. Cir. 2010). The Commission’s task in conducting
this review is to determine whether “revocation of [the] order . . .
would be likely to lead to a continuation or recurrence of material
injury within a reasonably foreseeable time.” 19 U.S.C. § 1675a(a)(1).
In doing so, the Commission is to consider the “likely volume, price
effect, and impact of imports of the subject merchandise on the in-
dustry if the order is revoked or the suspended investigation is ter-
minated.” Id. If the Commission determines that revocation would
likely lead to continued or recurrent material injury, Commerce can-
not revoke the order. Id. § 1675(d)(2)(B). But if the Commission
concludes that revocation would not have this effect, Commerce must
71  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 70]
revoke the subject order if Commerce does not separately determine
“that dumping or a countervailable subsidy, as the case may be, would
be likely to continue or recur . . . .” Id. § 1675(d)(2)(A). The Commis-
sion’s material-injury analysis is thus a critical determinant of
whether an antidumping or countervailing duty order will remain in
effect after the ﬁve-year sunset review.
C. Cumulation in the Five-Year Review Context
In conducting its likely-material-injury analysis, the Commission
“may cumulatively assess the volume and effect of imports” from
multiple source countries if those imports satisfy certain threshold
criteria. 19 U.S.C. § 1675a(a)(7). The imports must be (1) “likely to
compete with each other and with domestic like products in the
United States market” and (2) not be “likely to have no discernible
adverse impact on the domestic industry.” Id. If these criteria are
satisﬁed, the Commission “may cumulatively assess the volume and
effect of imports of the subject merchandise from all countries” sub-
ject to review. Id. But as the word “may” indicates, the Commission
retains discretion not to make a cumulative assessment (that is,
“cumulate”) even where the statutory criteria are satisﬁed. Id. §
1675a(a)(7); Nucor, 601 F.3d at 1293. If the Commission declines to
cumulate imports from a source country, it proceeds to a likely-
material-injury analysis for the decumulated imports on an indepen-
dent, country-speciﬁc basis. See 19 U.S.C. § 1675a(a)(2).
Section 1675a does not delineate any factors that the Commission
must consider in determining whether to cumulate imports from a
given country. See Nucor, 601 F.3d at 1295; Neenah Foundry Co. v.
United States, 25 CIT 702, 709, 155 F. Supp. 2d 766, 772 (2001). The
Commission accordingly enjoys “wide latitude” in identifying relevant
factors for cumulation in sunset reviews. Allegheny Ludlum Corp. v.
United States, 30 CIT 1995, 2002, 475 F. Supp. 2d 1370, 1380 (2006).
At the same time, however, the Commission’s discretion must “be
predicated upon a judgment anchored in the language and spirit of
the relevant statutes and regulations.” Freeport Mins. Co. v. United
States, 766 F.2d 1029, 1032 (Fed. Cir. 1985).
D. De Minimis Margins and Negligibility
When calculating an antidumping duty, Commerce “shall disregard
any weighted average dumping margin that is de minimis . . .” 19
U.S.C. § 1673d(a)(4). “[A] weighted average dumping margin is de
minimis if it is less than 2 percent ad valorem or the equivalent
speciﬁc rate for the subject merchandise.” Id. § 1673b(b)(3). As Com-
merce can apply different weighted average dumping margins to
72 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 71]
different respondents in an investigation, id. § 1677(35)(B), a de
minimis ﬁnding for one respondent does not necessarily compel the
termination of an antidumping order with respect to all respondents.
When calculating a countervailing duty, Commerce is to disregard
as de minimis any countervailable subsidy where “the aggregate of
the net countervailable subsidies is less than 1 percent ad valorem or
the equivalent speciﬁc rate for the subject merchandise.” Id. §
1671b(b)(4)(A); see also id. § 1671d(a)(3).
As these provisions indicate, Commerce’s calculation of a de mini-
mis margin for dumping or a countervailable subsidy reﬂects a low
degree of dumping or subsidization. The Commission’s negligibility
analysis, by contrast, involves a straightforward comparison of the
volume of dumped or subsidized imports from a country against the
volume of all imports of the same merchandise from all countries.
“[I]mports from a country of merchandise corresponding to a domestic
like product identiﬁed by the Commission are ‘negligible’ if such
imports account for less than 3 percent of the volume of all such
merchandise imported into the United States . . . .” Id. §
1677(24)(A)(i). In an original (non-sunset) material injury investiga-
tion, the Commission is directed to terminate the investigation upon
determining negligibility. Id. § 1671d(b)(1)(B). The ﬁve-year review
provision, however, does not expressly provide such a requirement.
See id. § 1675a.
II. History of Relevant Administrative Proceedings
In September 2016, the Commission determined that the U.S. hot-
rolled steel industry was materially injured or threatened with ma-
terial injury by less-than-fair-value (that is, “dumped”) imports of
hot-rolled steel from Turkey. See Certain Hot-Rolled Steel Flat Prod-
ucts from Australia, Brazil, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Turkey,
and the United Kingdom, Inv. Nos. 701-TA-545–547 and 731-TA-
1291–1297 (Final), USITC Pub. 4638, (Sep. 2016) (“ Original Deter-
mination Views”); see also Original Determination .
At the same time, the Commission terminated its investigation of
material injury by Turkish imports of hot-rolled steel that received
countervailable subsidies. See Original Determination Views at 14.
The Commission explained that Commerce had earlier determined
that Turkish hot-rolled steel producer Colakoglu Metalurji A.S. and
its affiliates (collectively, “Colakoglu”) received a de minimis counter-
vailable subsidy margin. Id. at 13 (citing Countervailing Duty Inves-
tigation of Certain Hot-Rolled Steel Flat Products From the Republic
of Turkey: Final Affirmative Determination, 81 Fed. Reg. 53433 (Dep’t
Com. Aug. 12, 2016)). This meant that for the remaining Turkish
73  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 72]
producers subject to Commerce’s countervailing duty order, including
Erdemir, “there is not a potential that subsidized subject imports
from Turkey will imminently exceed three percent [that is, the non-
negligibility threshold provided by 19 U.S.C. § 1677(24)(A)(i)] of total
imports.” Id. at 14. But because Colakoglu at the time remained
subject to Commerce’s Antidumping Order, the Commission did not
make a similar negligibility ﬁnding with respect to dumped imports
of hot-rolled steel from Turkey. See id. at 13 & n.52.
Pursuant to the Original Determination, as well as the results of its
own investigation, see Original Antidumping Determination , Com-
merce issued an antidumping duty order on Turkish imports of hot-
rolled steel in October 2016. See Antidumping Duty Order. Commerce
calculated dumping margins above the de minimis level for both
Erdemir and Colakoglu. Original Antidumping Determination at
53429.
Later in October 2016, Erdemir and Colakoglu challenged the
Original Antidumping Determination in consolidated actions before
this court. See Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari T.A.S. v. United
States, 44 CIT __, __, 435 F. Supp. 3d 1378, 1379 (2020). And after
three remands in that case, see id. , Commerce amended the Anti-
dumping Duty Order. See Amended Antidumping Determination .
In the Amended Antidumping Determination, Commerce calculated
Colakoglu’s dumping margin as zero and excluded Colakoglu’s im-
ports from the antidumping duty order. See Amended Antidumping
Determination at 29400. But Commerce clariﬁed that “[t]his exclu-
sion does not apply to merchandise that is not both produced and
exported by Colakoglu.” Id. Commerce calculated an above de mini-
mis dumping margin of 2.73% for Erdemir and accordingly left the
antidumping order in place with respect to Erdemir’s imports of
dumped merchandise. See id.; see also 19 U.S.C. § 1673b(b)(3).
On May 18, 2020, Erdemir requested that the Commission recon-
sider its Original Determination on account of Commerce’s exclusion
of Colakoglu from the antidumping order in the Amended Antidump-
ing Determination. See Letter from Erdemir to ITC, re: Request for
Reconsideration (May 18, 2020), P.R. 1 (“Reconsideration Request”).
One year later, following, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (“Federal Circuit”) dismissed an appeal from this court’s de-
cision sustaining Commerce’s Amended Antidumping Determination.
See Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari T.A.S. v. United States , No.
20–2003 (Fed. Cir. dismissed June 4, 2021), P.R. 18; see also Eregli
Demir, 435 F. Supp. 3d 1378. Erdemir then requested that the Com-
mission initiate a Changed Circumstances Review of its Original
Determination on account of the ﬁnality of the Amended Antidumping
74 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 73]
Determination. See Letter from Erdemir to ITC, re: Changed Circum-
stances Review Request (Sept. 10, 2021), P.R. 18 (“CCR Request”).
The Commission denied both the Reconsideration Request and the
CCR Request on November 29, 2022. See Denial of Request To Insti-
tute a Section 751(b) Review; Denial of Request To Institute a Section
751(b) Review or Reconsideration Proceeding Concerning the Com-
mission’s Affirmative Determination in Investigation No. 731-TA-1296
(Final), Hot-Rolled Steel Flat Products From Turkey , 87 Fed. Reg.
73331 (ITC Nov. 29, 2022), P.R. 356.
Meanwhile, the Commission conducted a ﬁve-year sunset review of
the Original Determination. Erdemir submitted a pre-hearing admin-
istrative brief on September 8, 2022. See Pre-Hearing Br
., Sept. 8,
2022, P.R. 261, C.R. 267. The Commission held a public hearing on
September 15, 2022, see Hr’g Tr., Sept. 16, 2022, P.R. 307, and Er-
demir submitted a post-hearing administrative brief shortly after-
ward. See Post-Hr’g Br., Sept. 27, 2022, P.R. 323, C.R. 292 (“Erdemir’s
Post-Hr’g Br.”).
The Commission published the results of its sunset review in the
Federal Register on December 2, 2022. See Five-Y
ear Determination.
The Commission determined that revoking the antidumping duty
order on Turkish imports of hot-rolled steel “would be likely to lead to
continuation or recurrence of material injury to an industry in the
United States within a reasonably foreseeable time.” Id. at 74167.
The Commission explained its reasoning at greater length in a
separate Commission-issued publication. See Hot-Rolled Steel from
Australia, Brazil, Japan, Netherlands, Russia, South Korea, Turkey,
and the United Kingdom, USITC Pub. No. 5380, Inv. Nos. 701-TA-
545–546 and 731-TA-1291–1297 (Review), and 731-TA-808 (Fourth
Review) (Nov. 2022), P.R. 355 (“Public Views”), C.R. 336 (“Conﬁdential
Views”).2 The Commission explained that in reaching3 its determina-
tion, it cumulatively assessed (“cumulated”) less-than-fair-value im-
ports of subject merchandise from Turkey with those from Australia,
Japan, the Netherlands, South Korea, Russia, and the United King-
2 The Commission published both public and conﬁdential versions of this document. As
these versions are paginated differently, citations in this opinion refer to both versions.
3 “The Commission makes its determinations by tallying the votes of the six individual
commissioners, each of whom is obligated to determine whether particular imports cause or
threaten to cause the requisite harm.” U.S. Steel Grp. v. United States, 96 F.3d 1352, 1360
(Fed. Cir. 1996). Only ﬁve commissioners took part in issuing the Five-Year Determination:
David S. Johanson, Rhonda K. Schmidtlein, Jason E. Kearns, Randolph J. Stayin, and Amy
A. Karpel. While Commissioners Schmidtlein and Stayin dissented as to the majority’s
decision not to cumulatively assess Brazilian imports of hot-rolled steel, the commissioners
were unanimous as to the aspects of the Five-Year Determination that are subject to
challenge in this case. See Public Views at 108; Conﬁdential Views at 156.
75  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 74]
dom (but not Brazil, the remaining subject country). See Public Views
at 67; Conﬁdential Views at 96–97.
III. Procedural History
Erdemir ﬁled a complaint against the Commission before the U.S.
Court of International T
rade (“CIT”) on December 26, 2022. See
Compl. Five U.S. producers of hot-rolled steel (United States Steel
Corporation, Cleveland- Cliffs Inc., Steel Dynamics, Inc., SSAB En-
terprises, LLC, and Nucor Corporation) then moved to intervene as
Defendant-Intervenors. See Mot. to Intervene, Jan. 12, 2023, ECF No.
19; Mot. to Intervene., Jan. 24, 2023, ECF No. 21; Mot to Intervene,
Jan. 24, 2023, ECF No. 26; Mot. to Intervene, Jan. 25, 2023, ECF No.
31. The court granted each motion. See Order, Jan. 12, 2023, ECF No.
20; Order, Jan. 24, 2023, ECF No. 25; Order, Jan. 25, 2023, ECF No.
30; Order, Jan. 26, 2023, ECF No. 35.
On July 14, 2023, Erdemir ﬁled the instant Motion for Judgment on
the 
Agency Record under USCIT Rule 56.2. See Pl.’s Mot. for J. on the
Agency R., July 14, 2023, ECF No. 45 (“Pl.’s Br.”). After ﬁling a motion
for an extension of time, see Def.’s Mot. for Extension of Time, Sept.
20, 2023, ECF No. 48, which was granted, see Order, Sept. 20, 2023,
ECF No. 49, the Government ﬁled a response. See Def.’s Mem. in
Opp’n. to Pl.’ Mot. for J. on the Agency R., Nov. 16, 2023, ECF No. 52.
Defendant-Intervenors also ﬁled a response, see Resp. of Def.-Inters.
in Opp’n to Pl.’s Mot. for J. on the Agency R., Nov. 16, 2023, ECF No.
54, and Erdemir ﬁled a reply. See Pl.’s Reply, Dec. 21, 2023, ECF No.
57 (“Pl.’s Reply”). After the court scheduled oral argument for April
10, 2024, see Order, Mar. 1, 2024, ECF No. 62, Erdemir moved to
bifurcate that argument into public and closed sessions. See Pl.’s Mot.
to Bifurcate Oral Arg., March 9, 2024, ECF No 63. The court denied
that motion, see Order, Apr. 2, 2024, ECF No. 64, and issued a list of
questions to the parties on to the parties later that day. See Letter re:
Qs. for Oral Arg., Apr. 2, 2024, ECF No. 65. The parties timely ﬁled
written responses to those questions. See Pl.’s Resp. to Ct.’s Qs. for
Oral Arg., Apr. 8, 2024, ECF No. 66; Def.’s Resp. to Ct.’s Qs. for Oral
Arg., Apr. 8, 2024, ECF No. 67; Def.-Inters.’ Resp. to Ct.’s Qs. for Oral
Arg., Apr. 8, 2024, ECF No. 68.
At oral argument, which was held as a single public session, the
court invited the parties to ﬁle additional written submissions. The
parties did so. See Pl.’
s Post-Oral Arg. Subm., April 22, 2024 (“Pl.’s
Supp. Br.”), ECF No. 73; Def.-Inters.’ Post-Oral Arg. Subm., Apr. 22,
2024, ECF No. 74; Def.’s Post-Oral Arg. Subm., Apr. 22, 2024, ECF
No. 75.
76 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 75]
JURISDICTION AND STANDARD OF REVIEW
Jurisdiction lies under 28 U.S.C. § 1581(c). The standard of review
in this action is set forth in 19 U.S.C. § 1516a(b)(1)(B)(i), which states
that “[t)he court shall hold unlawful any determination, ﬁnding or
conclusion found . . . to be unsupported by substantial evidence on the
record, or otherwise not in accordance with law . . . .”
“[A] party challenging the Commission’s determination under the
substantial evidence standard has chosen a course with a high bar-
rier to reversal.” Nippon Steel Corp. v. United States , 458 F.3d 1345,
1358 (Fed. Cir. 2006) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).
Substantial evidence is “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind
might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Broadcom Corp. v.
Int’l Trade Comm’n, 28 F.4th 240, 249 (Fed. Cir. 2022) (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted). To be supported by substan-
tial evidence, a determination must account for “whatever in the
record fairly detracts from its weight,” including “contradictory evi-
dence or evidence from which conﬂicting inferences could be drawn.”
Suramerica de Aleaciones Laminadas, C.A. v. United States , 44 F.3d
978, 985 (Fed. Cir. 1994) (quoting Universal Camera Corp. v.
N.L.R.B., 340 U.S. 474, 487–88 (1951)).
DISCUSSION
Erdemir presents two main arguments: that (1) the Five-Year De-
termination is not in accordance with law because it does not rest on
a predicate material injury as required by 19 U.S.C. § 1675a(a)(1)(A),
and that (2) it is unsupported by substantial evidence because the
Commission improperly considered imports of non-subject merchan-
dise. Neither argument is availing.
I. The Five-Year Determination is in Accordance With Law
Erdemir ﬁrst argues that the Commission could not have lawfully
determined (as it did) that revoking the Antidumping Order “would
be likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of material injury.” Pl.’s
Br. at 18 (quoting 19 U.S.C. § 1675a(a)(1)). This, Erdemir asserts, is
because the Amended Antidumping Determination ’s negligibility
ﬁnding with respect to Colakoglu rendered the Commission’s Origi-
nal Determination inoperative as a means of establishing a material
injury by any Turkish producer of subject merchandise—and that
without an underlying material injury, there can be no “continuation
or recurrence” of that injury as a matter of law. See 19 U.S.C. §
1675a(a)(1)(A). In a nutshell: “The Commission cannot ﬁnd that ma-
terial injury is likely to continue or recur because of subject Turkish
77  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 76]
imports—which were negligible during the [Period of
Investigation]—did not previously cause material injury.” Pl.’s Br. at
23.
This argument falters because the Commission’s Original Determi-
nation remains a ﬁnal and binding agency action. Erdemir did not
challenge it by the appeal deadline, and separate litigation related to
Erdemir
’s petitions for reconsideration and a changed circumstances
review of the Original Determination is currently pending before
another judge of this court. See Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari
T.A.S. v. United States Int’l Trade Comm’n, Court No. 22–349 (CIT
ﬁled Dec. 26, 2022); see also Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari T.A.S.
v. United States Int’l Trade Comm’n, Court No. 22–350 (CIT ﬁled Dec.
26, 2022). (Oral argument in those cases took place on June 13, 2024).
Accordingly, despite possible tension with Commerce’s Amended An-
tidumping Determination ,4 the Original Determination remains a
current statement of the Commission’s determination that “an indus-
try in the United States is materially injured by reason of subject
imports” of dumped hot-rolled steel from Turkey. Original Determi-
nation at 52. The Original Determination establishes a predicate
material injury—a “condition precedent,” as Erdemir styles it, Pl.’s
Br. at 21—from which the Commission may lawfully ﬁnd that a
“continuation or recurrence” will “likely” ensue.5
The court declines Erdemir’s suggestion that it treat elements of
the Original Determination as having been “nulliﬁe[d]” by Com-
merce’s subsequent Amended Antidumping Determination . Pl.’s Br.
at 23. Doing so would deprive all interested parties, including Er-
demir, of the ability to ascertain the present legal effect of the Com-
mission’s Original Determination by reference to its published text.
This, in turn, would upset the basic principles of ﬁnality and certainty
that underlie administrative law. See Vt. Yankee Nuclear Power Corp.
v. Nat. Res. Def. Council, Inc., 435 U.S. 519, 554–55, (1978) (quoting
Interstate Com. Comm’n v. Jersey City, 322 U.S. 503, 514–15 (1944));
4 The court need not, and does not, reach the issue of whether the Amended Antidumping
Determination is ultimately reconcilable with the Original Determination.
5 All parties rest aspects of their arguments on the Statement of Administrative Action
accompanying the Uruguay Rounds Agreements Act, H.R. Doc. No. 103–316, vol. I, reprinted
in 1994 U.S.C.C.A.N. 4040 (“ SAA”). Erdemir asserts that the SAA “carries authoritative
weight.” Pl.’s Reply at 10 n.3 (quoting AK Steel Corp. v. United States, 226 F.3d 1361, 1368
(Fed. Cir. 2000)). The statutory provision to which this quoted language refers, however,
does not elevate the SAA to the status of a statute. See 19 U.S.C. § 3512(d). It limits the
authority of the SAA to “judicial proceeding[s] in which a question arises concerning . . .
interpretation or application” of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act. Id. And no argument
in this case, as briefed by the parties, turns on such a question of interpretation or
application. Cf. AK Steel, 226 F.3d at 1367 (invoking the SAA to analyze, through close
statutory interpretation, the effect of Congress’s revision of a statute). Accordingly, the court
does not consider the SAA in reaching its decision in this case. Nor would such consider-
ation be necessary to the court’s disposition.
78 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 77]
see also ThyssenKrupp Acciai Speciali Terni S.p.A. v. United States ,
603 F.3d 928, 934 (Fed. Cir. 2010) (“Parties to a proceeding have an
interest in relying on ﬁnal decisions of adjudicatory bodies.”).
Preserving the legal effect of ﬁnal and unrevoked administrative
determinations is particularly important in the trade context, where
special complexities heighten the need for beacons of certainty
. The
administration of U.S. trade remedy laws involves the coordinated
behavior of several agencies. This behavior is iterated, and not syn-
chronously: Commerce may conduct annual administrative reviews of
its determinations, and the Commission conducts ﬁve-year sunset
reviews like the one Erdemir challenges in this case. Judicial review
complicates matters even further, as do court-ordered remand
redeterminations—which take time to prepare and may themselves
be remanded. See, e.g., Green Farms Seafood Joint Stock Co. v. United
States, 48 CIT __, __, Slip Op. 24–46, at 1 (Apr. 17, 2024) (remanding,
in a case involving two consolidated challenges, Commerce’s determi-
nation in the seventeenth administrative review of an antidumping
order that was originally issued in 2003). The result is that tracing
the determinations underlying a given antidumping or countervail-
ing duty order—each of which represents a “consummation of the
administrative process,” Chicago & S. Air Lines v. Waterman S. S.
Corp., 333 U.S. 103, 113 (1948), can be a perplexing endeavor. A party
seeking to understand its obligations and preserve its rights must
keep track of a host of administrative and judicial developments. See,
e.g., Goodluck India Ltd. v. United States, 47 CIT __, __, 670 F. Supp.
3d 1353, 1379–80 (2023).
It is thanks to administrative ﬁnality that this task is merely
dif
ficult and not impossible. When Commerce or the Commission
issues or revokes a determination, it must describe the nature and
grounds of its decision. See 19 U.S.C. §§ 1677f, 1673d(d). This means
that even though a particular duty order may rest a complex network
of agency actions, the network remains susceptible to analysis as a
set of discrete, indexed, and outwardly legible components—each of
which, unless further modiﬁed or superseded, can be safely relied on
as an order from which “rights or obligations have been determined or
legal consequences will ﬂow.” Port of Bos. Marine Terminal Ass’n v.
Rederiaktiebolaget Transatlantic, 400 U.S. 62, 71 (1970).
The approach Erdemir urges the court to adopt would leave navi-
gators of the trade law labyrinth without this crucial navigational
thread. 
An interested party could not simply look to a Commission
material injury determination as a controlling statement of the legal
79  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 78]
effects that ﬂowed at the time of issuance. Instead, those effects would
be subject to retroactive, undeﬁned revisions and nulliﬁcations by
subsequent non-Commission determinations—which, like the
Amended Antidumping Determination , do not purport to automati-
cally execute a change in the Commission’s material injury determi-
nation.
Treating the Amended Antidumping Determination as a de facto
amendment to the Original Determination would also frustrate the
administrative scheme that Commerce and the Commission are
jointly charged with administering. As the court recognized early on,
“[t]he very strict controls on administrative review of prior determi-
nations . . . are [a] good indication that Congress did not want these
determinations to remain in a state of ﬂux”. Royal Bus. Machines,
Inc. v. United States, 1 CIT 80, 87 n.18, 507 F. Supp. 1007, 1014 n.18
(1980), aff’d, 669 F.2d 692 (C.C.P.A. 1982). Pursuing “what the court
perceives to be the best or correct result would render judicial review
totally unpredictable.” PSC VSMPO-Avisma Corp. v. United States ,
688 F.3d 751, 761 (Fed. Cir. 2012) (quoting Vt. Yankee, 435 U.S. at
546) (internal quotation marks omitted).
If Commerce determinations could impliedly divest Commission
determinations of their legal effect, parties (and the court) would be
left to guess as to whether a divestment has occurred—and, if it has
occurred, what its boundaries are. Sophisticated actors can make
sophisticated guesses, but at the level of complexity typical of trade
remedy–related determinations there is simply no way to deduce the
totality of downstream legal consequences. Ascertaining those conse-
quences is the province of litigation, not divination: if a party wants
to cut off the legal effect of a past determination that it alleges is
irreconcilable with subsequent determinations, it can sue for that
remedy. Otherwise, the past determination remains in force.
Consider the nuances of the legal effect that Erdemir attributes to
the Amended Antidumping Determination . It is not a “straightfor-
ward mathematical adjustment.” NTN Bearing Corp. v. United
States, 74 F.3d 1204, 1208 (Fed. Cir. 1995). Erdemir argues that if
Commerce calculates a de minimis dumping margin for Colakoglu,
the Commission should consider all remaining entries dumped by
other Turkish importers to be negligible. Pl.’s Br. at 19. Erdemir
further insists that if the Commission makes a negligibility determi-
nation for all Turkish importers on the basis of Commerce’s ﬁnding
that Colakoglu’s countervailable subsidies are de minimis, the Com-
mission must also make a parallel negligibility determination for all
Turkish importers upon Commerce’s amended ﬁnding that Colakog-
lu’s dumping margin is de minimis . Id. Along the way, Erdemir
80 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 79]
implies that a de minimis dumping margin (as deﬁned by 19 U.S.C.
§ 1673b(b)(3)) necessarily compels the Commission’s ﬁnding of negli-
gibility as provided in 19 U.S.C. § 1673d(b)(1)(B).
This is a non-obvious line of reasoning: erroneous or not, it is at the
very least unclear without the aid of substantial explanation. And
Erdemir effectively 6 asks the court to retroactively incorporate its
conclusions into the Original Determination without any kind of
administrative proceeding or notice. This of course is an action that
the Commission itself is not even authorized by statute to perform,
and the court declines to treat it as completed. If Erdemir wishes to
sap the Original Determination of the force that establishes a “con-
dition precedent” material injury, it must challenge (or have chal-
lenged) the Original Determination itself. That course of action would
give the Commission a chance to consider Erdemir’s negligibility
arguments in the ﬁrst instance.
The court observes that Erdemir has separately petitioned the
Commission for reconsideration of the Original Determination and
for the initiation of a changed circumstance review. Although the
Commission denied both petitions, Erdemir has challenged both de-
nials in separate actions before the CIT. See Eregli Demir, Court No.
22–349; Eregli Demir , Court No. 22–350. The court in this case
expresses no view as to the potential disposition of those actions,
which (as noted above) are before a different judge. The court merely
observes that if Erdemir hopes to arrest the continuing legal effects of
an Original Determination that it asserts is out of date, there exist
more suitable channels for that endeavor than the one it has chosen
here.
This is accordingly not a circumstance where “equity will, for the
purposes of justice, treat that to have been done, which ought to have
been done.” Taylor v. Longworth, 39 U.S. 172, 177 (1840) (Story, J.).
6 Erdemir argues that “[t]he Commission, in declining to initiate the [changed circumstance
review] on grounds of duplicativeness, essentially wrote into the sunset review the mandate
to consider the impact of the changed circumstances, i.e., the Colakoglu exclusion, and then
proceeded to ignore its own mandate.” Pl.’s Supp. Br. at 3. Whether this is a valid impu-
tation or not, such “writing-in” is beyond the Commission’s power. The Commission cannot
replace by declaration the parameters of a review that Congress has imposed through
legislation. See Civ. Aeronautics Bd. v. Delta Air Lines, Inc., 367 U.S. 316, 334 (1961) (“[W]e
think that both administrative and judicial feelings have been opposed to the proposition
that the agencies may expand their powers of reconsideration without a solid foundation in
the language of the statute.” It may be (although the court does not entertain the question
here) that the Commission erroneously declined to initiate a changed circumstance review.
See Eregli Demir , Court No. 22–350. Erroneous or not, however, that decision does not
broaden the statutory scope of the Commission’s sunset review.).
81  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 80]
II. The Five-Year Determination is Supported by Substantial
Evidence
Erdemir also challenges the Commission’s exercise of discretion to
cumulatively assess (that is, “cumulate”) imports of subject merchan-
dise alongside imports from other countries. Erdemir argues that the
cumulation determination is unsupported by substantial evidence
and should accordingly be held unlawful pursuant to 19 U.S.C. §
1516a(b)(l)(B)(i). This, Erdemir alleges, is because the Commission
improperly considered Colakoglu’
s non-subject imports in ﬁnding
that Turkish imports of subject merchandise would not be “likely to
have no discernible adverse impact on the domestic industry.” See
Pl.’s Br. at 24; 19 U.S.C. § 1675a(a)(7). According to Erdemir, “[a]ny
analysis including Colakoglu’s non-subject imports is in error and
cannot provide record support for the Commission’s ﬁndings or con-
clusions.” Pl.’s Br. at 26.
This argument is without merit because (1) the Commission did not
consider Colakoglu’
s non-subject imports as support for its
discernible-adverse-impact ﬁnding and (2) the Commission reason-
ably concluded that likely imports of subject merchandise from
Turkey—even without Colakoglu’s sales—would clear the low thresh-
old for discernibility.
A. The Commission did not Consider Colakoglu’s Data
in its Cumulation Analysis
Although Erdemir’s brief refers generally to a “cumulation analy-
sis,”7 the Commission’s determination to cumulate actually rests on
two separate statutorily mandated inquiries. 19 U.S.C. § 1675a(a)(7).
Before exercising its discretion to cumulatively assess imports, the
Commission must assess (1) whether the imports to be cumulated are
“likely to compete with each other and with domestic like products in
the United States market,”8 and (2) whether the imports are “likely to
7 As noted above, the Commission’s task in a Five-Year review of a duty order is to
determine whether “revocation of [the] order . . . would be likely to lead to a continuation
or recurrence of material injury within a reasonably foreseeable time.” l9 U.S.C. §
l675a(a)(l).
8 The Commission’s practice in carrying out this statutory mandate is to undertake what it
terms a “conditions-of-competition” analysis. See Nucor Corp. v. United States , 601 F.3d
1291, 1296 (Fed. Cir. 2010).
82 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 81]
have no discernible adverse impact on the domestic industry.” Id. The
statute’s text conﬁrms that these are independent prerequisites. 9
In the proceeding before the Commission, Erdemir asserted that
the second “no discernible impact” prerequisite was not satisﬁed. See
Erdemir’s Posthearing Br. at 14. The Commission summarized this
challenge and responded to it as follows:
Regarding Erdemir’s argument that, since imports of hot-rolled
steel from Colakoglu are not subject merchandise in these re-
views, subject imports from T
urkey will not have a discernible
adverse impact, we disagree. Given the relative attractiveness of
the U.S. market and the Turkish industry’s excess capacity, we
ﬁnd that it is not likely that there will be no discernible adverse
impact if the antidumping duty order on hot-rolled steel from
Turkey is revoked even if exports from Colakoglu are no longer
subject merchandise
Public Views at 48 n.298; Conﬁdential Views at 68 n.298. The Com-
mission supported its reference to the attractiveness of the U.S.
market with a discussion of four points: the average unit value of
shipments from T
urkey to the United States, the acknowledgment of
a respondent in its Foreign Producer Questionnaire Response that
the U.S.’s market offers higher prices than other countries’ markets,
the trend in Erdemir’s export volume during the investigation under-
lying the Original Determination , and the fact that Turkish imports
of hot-rolled steel are subject to an antidumping order in the Euro-
pean Union. See Public Views at 47–48; Conﬁdential Views at 68. The
Commission supported its reference to the Turkish industry’s excess
capacity with a discussion of Turkish producers’ reported excess ca-
pacity in 2021 and an individual non-Colakoglu respondent’s plan to
expand capacity for 2023. See Public Views at 46–47; Conﬁdential
Views at 67–68.
None of these factors involved Colakoglu’s U.S. sales of non-subject
merchandise. While the Commission did reference data collected dur-
ing the original investigation—that is, before Colakoglu’s imports lost
9 19 U.S.C. § 1675a(a)(7) provides as follows:
[T]he Commission may cumulatively assess the volume and effect of imports of the
subject merchandise from all countries with respect to which reviews . . . were initiated
on the same day, if such imports would be likely to compete with each other and with
domestic like products in the United States market. The Commission shall not cumu-
latively assess the volume and effects of imports of the subject merchandise in a case in
which it determines that such imports are likely to have no discernible adverse impact
on the domestic industry
Id.
83  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 82]
their status as subject imports following the Amended Antidumping
Determination—the Commission generally employed those refer-
ences either as background 10 or as a means of establishing an illus-
trative comparison with data collected during the review underlying
the Five-Year Determination. See id. at 67. In the one instance where
the Commission did apparently directly rely on Original Determina-
tion data, that data pertained to a trend in the commercial activity of
Erdemir alone. See id. at 68. At no point did the Commission directly
rely on a data set that includes Colakoglu’s pre-exclusion imports as
a basis for its negative “no discernible adverse impact” ﬁnding. See id.
at 64–68. As the Commission stated, “Colakoglu is no longer a pro-
ducer of subject merchandise and data for it is not included in the
data for subject imports from Turkey during the current review.” Id.
at 64 n.276.
B. The Commission Reasonably Concluded that Turkish
Hot-Rolled Steel Imports W
ould Not Have No
Discernible Adverse Impact on Domestic Industry
Erdemir argues that without the “taint” of Colakoglu’s data, the
Commission could not have lawfully determined that T
urkish hot-
rolled steel imports would not have no discernible adverse impact on
U.S. industry. See Pl.’s Reply at 20. This, Erdemir suggests, is be-
cause the collective value of non-Colakoglu imports during the review
period underlying the Five-Year Determination was too low to effect a
discernible impact. See id.; see also Pl.’s Br. at 29–30. Erdemir raised
the same argument during the Commission proceeding below: with-
out factoring in Colakoglu’s imports, Erdemir argued, “[Hot-rolled
steel] imports from Turkey have remained limited . . . with no expec-
tation of increased imports from subject Turkish producers.” Er-
demir’s Post-Hr’g Br. at 14–15.
Discernibility, however, is a low bar. “[S]atisfying the ‘no discernible
adverse impact’ element of the cumulation determination merely
requires a ﬁnding that a set of imports clears a baseline discernability
threshold for adverse impact.” Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. v. United States,
48 CIT __, __, Slip Op. 24–34, at 21–22 (Mar. 20, 2024) (citing Nippon
Steel Corp. v. U.S. Int’l Trade Comm’n, 494 F.3d 1371, 1379 n.6 (Fed.
Cir. 2007)). An impact need not even inﬂict material injury—that is,
10 Erdemir asserts that “[i]n the very ﬁrst sentence of the Commission’s cumulation analy-
sis for Turkey [the Commission] included Colakoglu’s non-subject imports in a review of
subject import volume from Turkey.” Pl.’s Br. at 25. But the fact that the Commission
referenced this information early on—by way of background, as context later clariﬁes—does
not mean that the Commission relied on Colakoglu’s data from the Original Determination
in reaching its discernible-adverse-impact ﬁnding for the Five-Year Determination.
84 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 83]
“harm which is not inconsequential, immaterial, or unimportant,” 19
U.S.C. § 1677—to be discernible. See Usinor v. United States, 28 CIT
1107, 1123, 342 F. Supp. 2d 1267, 1281–82 (2004). Accordingly, as the
court “may not reweigh the evidence or substitute its own judgment
for that of the agency,” id. at 1111, the court concludes that the
Commission cited “such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind
might accept as adequate to support a conclusion” when it rejected
Erdemir’s preferred weighting. Broadcom, 28 F.4th at 249 (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted).
C. The Commission’s Determination to Cumulate
T
urkish Imports Is Reconcilable With its
Determination not to Cumulate Brazilian Imports
In the Five-Y ear Determination, the Commission declined to cumu-
late imports of hot-rolled steel from Brazil. Erdemir argues that this
presents an inconsistency: “[t]he Commission’s failure to exclude Co-
lakoglu’s non-subject imports from its baseline analysis of investiga-
tion data tainted the cumulation analysis such that it cannot be
reconciled with the Commission’s decision not to cumulate subject
imports from Brazil.” Pl.’s Br. at 31.
Even assuming the validity of Erdemir’s predicate assertion that
the Commission’
s analysis was “tainted” (an assertion which, as ex-
plained above, the court ﬁnds unpersuasive), Erdemir’s argument is
misplaced. Here, Erdemir challenges only the Commission’s ﬁnding
that subject imports from Turkey would not inﬂict no discernible
impact on U.S. industry. But when the Commission conducted the
same discernible-impact inquiry regarding imports from Brazil, the
Commission also found discernibility. See Public Views at 32, Conﬁ-
dential Views at 44. These ﬁndings are not just reconcilable—they are
the same. The Commission declined to cumulate Brazilian imports
for the entirely distinct reason that “subject imports from Brazil
would not be likely to compete under similar conditions of competi-
tion with subject imports from other subject countries . . . .” Public
Views at 59, Conﬁdential Views at 86.
Erdemir claims that “[t]he Commission’s division of the cumulation
analysis between ‘no discernible adverse impact’ 
and ‘conditions of
competition’ is effectively meaningless given the similarity of analysis
between the two.” Pl.’s Br. at 34. That is not so. For one thing, the
Commission does not divide its cumulation analysis on its own ini-
tiative. Section 1675a(a)(7) requires separate and independent inqui-
ries. It is possible, for example, that imports that do not “compete
85  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 84]
with each other and with domestic like products in the United States
market” could nevertheless inﬂict a “discernible adverse impact on
the domestic industry.” Id.; see, e.g. , Allegheny Ludlum , 30 CIT at
2000.
The two inquiries also involve different metrics. In a conditions-of-
competition inquiry, the Commission assesses the degree of similarity
among markets that export subject merchandise. See id. at 19–20; see
also U.S. Steel Corp. v. United States , 36 CIT 1172, 1177–78 (2012),
856 F. Supp. 2d 1318, 1324, aff’d, 550 F. App’x 893 (Fed. Cir. 2014)
(noting that the Commission “thoroughly examined and identiﬁed
potential differences in conditions of competition relating to export
orientation, historic volume trends, export market focus, and historic
pricing patterns”). In the discernibility analysis, the Commission
looks not to difference but whether the imports in question clear a low
threshold of discernibility. See Nippon Steel, 494 F.3d at 1379 n.6;
Allegheny Ludlum, 30 CIT at 2000 (“In its determination of whether
imports are likely to have no discernible adverse impact on the do-
mestic industry, the Commission generally considers the likely vol-
ume of subject imports . . . .”). Even though the Commission’s analy-
ses of these metrics may rest on overlapping data, see Pl.’s Br. at 31,
it does not follow that data which cuts against a ﬁnding of similar
conditions of competition must also cut against a ﬁnding of discern-
ibility. Import volume is only one of the many axes along which
conditions of competition can differ.
For this reason, the court concludes that the Commission’s cumu-
lation of imports from Turkey is not irreconcilable with its determi-
nation not to cumulate imports from Brazil.
CONCLUSION
The aspects of the Commission’s Five-Year Determination that Er-
demir challenges are in accordance with law and supported by sub-
stantial evidence. The court concludes that (1) Commerce’s Amended
Antidumping Determination did not foreclose an affirmative material
injury determination as to Turkey in the Commission’s sunset review
and that (2) the Commission’s determination to cumulatively assess
subject Turkish imports of hot-rolled steel is supported by substantial
evidence.
The Commission’s Five-Year Determination is sustained. Judgment
on the agency record will enter accordingly for Defendant and
Defendant-Intervenors.
86 CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 85]
SO ORDERED.
Dated: June 20, 2024
New York, New York
/s/ Gary S. Katzmann
GARY S. KATZMANN, JUDGE
87  CUSTOMS BULLETIN AND DECISIONS, VOL. 58, N O. 26, JUL Y 3, 2024

[Page 86]


[Page 87]
Index
Customs Bulletin and Decisions
Vol. 58, No. 26, July 3, 2024
U.S. Customs and Border Protection
General Notices
 Page
Notice of Issuance of Final Determination Concerning UPanelS LED
Display Panels  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Notice of Issuance of Final Determination Concerning Thermal Printers . . 10
Proposed Modiﬁcation of Four Ruling Letters, Proposed Revocation of Four
Ruling Letters, and Revocation of Treatment Relating to the Tariff
Classiﬁcation of Certain Composite Goods with the Essential Character
of Permanent Magnets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
U.S. Court of International Trade
Slip Opinions
Slip Op. No. Page
Greentech Energy Solutions, Inc., Plaintiff, v. United States,
Defendant.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24–69 49
Ereg˘ li Demir ve C¸elik Fabrikalari T.A.S¸., Plaintiff, v. United
States International Trade Commission, Defendant, and
United States Steel Corporation, Cleveland Cliffs Inc., Steel
Dynamics, Inc., SSAB Enterprises, LLC, and Nucor
Corporation, Defendant-Intervenors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24–75 69
 U.S. G.P.O.: 2024—427-373/30082