CLA-2-90:OT:RR:NC:N1:405
Young-bin Oh
Hyundai Motor Company 
231, Yangjae 2-dong
Seocho-gu, Seoul
South Korea          
RE:	The tariff classification of an instrument cluster from South Korea  
Dear Mr. Oh:
In your letter dated July 8, 2015 you requested a tariff classification ruling.
The merchandise under consideration is referred to as a Cluster Assembly-Instrument and identified by item code 940211R500.  Located behind the steering wheel, this dashboard display unit consists of a printed circuit board, liquid crystal displays, dials with indicating pointers and various plastic structural components.  Based on the information provided, it appears that the subject assembly informs the driver via aural and visual signals of the vehicles systems and conditions.  Both analog and digital outputs indicate information such as RPM, mileage, velocity, fuel level, engine temp, lamps on/off, etc.
The applicable subheading for the instrument cluster will be 9029.20.4080, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), which provides for Revolution counters, production counters, taximeters, odometers, pedometers and the like; speedometers and tachometers, other than those of heading 9014 or 9015; stroboscopes; parts and accessories thereof: Speedometers and tachometers; stroboscopes: Other speedometers and tachometers: Other.  The rate of duty will be free.
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.  The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are provided on World Wide Web at http://www.usitc.gov/tata/hts/.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be provided with the entry documents filed at the time this merchandise is imported.  If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National Import Specialist April [email protected]@cbp.dhs.gov.
Sincerely,
Gwenn Klein Kirschner
Director
National Commodity Specialist Division