[Page 1]
Reproduced with permission. Published March 24, 2020. Copyright /H230052020 The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. 800-372-
1033. For further use, please visit http://www.bna.com/copyright-permission-request/
INSIGHT: U.S. Trade T ariffs—The ‘Origin’ Story
BY LUIS (LOU) A BAD AND DONALD HOK
The reliance on high tariffs as a tool of U.S. trade and
foreign policy has significantly increased in recent
years. For example, to address unfair trade practices al-
leged against China, the U.S. implemented a series of
‘‘Section 301’’ measures on products of China, includ-
ing tariffs of up to 25% on a wide range of goods com-
prising roughly $370 billion of imported Chinese goods;
and imposed ‘‘Section 232’’ national security tariffs of
10-25% on imported aluminum and steel from most
countries.
In this volatile and high-tariff environment, compa-
nies are considering new ways to strategically blunt or
avoid these high costs, including altering their produc-
tion operations or supply chains to effect favorable
changes to the ‘‘country of origin’’ of imported goods.
For instance, companies have considered relocating
some or all production operations outside of China to
impart a different ‘‘country of origin’’ on the imported
goods and avoid the ‘‘Section 301’’ tariffs.
This article discusses key considerations and U.S.
Customs and Border Protection (CBP) rules and deci-
sions that companies should take into account when al-
tering supply chains or manufacturing operations to ob-
tain different ‘‘origin’’ outcomes for tariff purposes.
BACKGROUND
Generally, there are different and distinct customs
rules of origin that may apply to imported goods, in-
cluding, but not limited to: (1) the general marking
rules of origin, addressing how goods of foreign origin
shall be marked to indicate to an ultimate purchaser in
the U.S., the country of origin of the good (19 U.S.C.
Section 1304); (2) the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) marking rules, specifically for
goods produced in a NAFTA country (19 C.F.R. Part
102); and (3) the respective ‘‘preferential’’ rules of ori-
gin to determine whether goods are eligible for a re-
duced tariff based on a free trade agreement.
In some cases, it is possible to have two distinct coun-
try of origin rules and determinations for the same
product. For example, an electric motor assembled in
Mexico from Chinese-origin components may be of
Mexican origin for marking purposes under the NAFTA
marking rules, but when determining the country of ori-
gin for purposes of applying current trade remedies, for
example under Section 301 or Section 232, the motor
may be considered a product of China if the assembly
operations in Mexico do not amount to a ‘‘substantial
transformation’’ of the Chinese-origin components. See
for example, CBP Headquarters Letter Ruling (HQ)
H301619 (Nov. 6, 2018), modifying HQ H300226 (Sept.
13, 2018). Moreover, with the anticipated replacement
of the NAFTA by the Agreement Between the United
States of America, The United Mexican States, and
Canada (the ‘‘USMCA’’), the replacement origin rules
would also need to be considered.
Thus, in any country of origin analysis it is important
to first identify the purpose of the enquiry and then de-
termine which set of origin rules apply to the specific
facts.
As it applies to the special tariffs imposed pursuant to
Section 301 or Section 232, the statutes and regulations
do not specify how the origin of goods should be deter-
mined for said purposes. However, over the course of
decades, the federal courts and CBP have determined
that where special tariffs are imposed on the ‘‘product
of’’ a particular country, that term at the least includes
manufactured articles of such country or articles that
have undergone a ‘‘substantial transformation.’’ In HQ
H301619 (Nov. 6, 2018), CBP, in reliance on Belcrest
Linens v. United States , stated that ‘‘[w]hen determin-
ing the country of origin for purposes of applying cur-
rent trade remedies under Section 301, Section 232, and
COPYRIGHT /H230052020 BY THE BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS, INC.
bloombergbna.com 

[Page 2]
Section 201, the substantial transformation analysis is
applicable.’’ Thus, consistent with the general customs
marking rules, if a product’s components originate, or
operations are undertaken, in multiple countries, the
components must undergo a ‘‘substantial transforma-
tion’’ to render a particular country the ‘‘country of ori-
gin’’ for purposes of determining whether the special
tariffs apply.
Over a century ago, the U.S. Supreme Court, in
Anheuser-Busch Brewing Ass’n v. United States , articu-
lated that goods are considered to be manufactured for
customs purposes when a new and different article
emerges ‘‘having a distinctive name, character, or use .’’
This principle has evolved to become part of the ‘‘sub-
stantial transformation’’ lore. More recently, in 2016,
the U.S. Court of International Trade (CIT) determined
in Energizer Battery v. United States , that for the pur-
poses of government procurement under the Trade
Agreements Act of 1979 (TAA), ‘‘in order for a product
to be substantially transformed, it must become a new
and different article of commerce with a name, charac-
ter, or use distinct from that of the article or articles
from which it was so transformed.’’
As the following discussion highlights, the applica-
tion of the ‘‘change in name, character or use’’ standard
can be complex and fact intensive, and is generally de-
termined on a case-by-case basis requiring both quanti-
tative data and qualitative judgements.
SUBSTANTIAL TRANSFORMATION
The concept of ‘‘substantial transformation’’ is not a
bright-line rule, and can be viewed as more art than sci-
ence, resulting in varying outcomes. Importers are of-
ten challenged to distill guiding principles from the
many, sometimes seemingly conflicting, customs rul-
ings and court cases to determine whether a particular
manufacturing process or assembly operation is suffi-
ciently substantial to effect a ‘‘change in name, charac-
ter or use.’’ Coupled with the fact that CBP inconsis-
tently considers various ‘‘subsidiary’’ factors to deter-
mine whether a substantial transformation has been
effectuated, it can be challenging to make these origin
determinations
Change in Name
The first disjunctive prong of the substantial transfor-
mation test is whether the processing effected a change
in name. The key question here is whether the discrete
components retain their names after they are as-
sembled into the finished good. For example, in the En-
ergizer case, the CIT found that the components, such
as the ‘‘switch lever’’ and ‘‘TIR lens’’ did not lose their
individual names as a result of the assembly of the com-
ponents into the final flashlight. Thus, the discrete com-
ponents retained their names even after they became a
part of the whole.
It is also notable that the CIT stated that the ‘‘change
in name’’ criterion is generally considered the least
compelling of the three disjunctive factors to support a
substantial transformation determination. As a result,
in order to establish that a substantial transformation
has occurred, it would behoove importers to consider
the other two prongs: either a change in character or
use.
Change in Character
Generally, the second disjunctive prong requires a
physical change or a substantial alteration to the char-
acteristics of the article or components; and cosmetic
changes will be deemed insufficient to effect a substan-
tial transformation. For example, in Ferrostaal Metals
Corp. v. United States , the CIT found that a process
whereby raw steel sheets are subjected to an irrevers-
ible ‘‘continuous hot dip galvanizing’’ process that
transforms the hard steel into a more malleable product
changed the character of the steel sheets. Specifically,
the CIT found that the article emerging from the galva-
nizing process had a different atomic pattern, different
mechanical properties and a different chemical compo-
sition. As a result, the galvanized steel would last up to
10 times longer, could be sold for 57-80% more in price,
and could be used in a wider range of commercial ap-
plications than un-galvanized steel. In that case, the
physical changes were sufficient to find there was a
substantial transformation of the un-galvanized steel.
Many cases, however, do not involve subjecting an
article to an obvious and physically transformative pro-
cess, but rather involve the more challenging scenario
whereby various components are merely assembled to-
gether to produce a distinct finished article.
Generally, simple assembly will not result in a sub-
stantial transformation of the components. However,
the line can become blurry in situations even where the
assembly process is arguably complex or involves the
production of several major subassemblies comprised
of many, sometimes hundreds, of smaller components.
Take for example the Energizer case, where the assem-
bly of approximately 50 components, including lens
heads, light-emitting diodes, wires, fasteners, etc., into
a flashlight did not result in a substantial transforma-
tion of the components. In fact, there is no change in
the shape or material composition, or the character, of
any of the discrete components even after they became
part of the whole.
Also, consider two of CBP’s origin decisions concern-
ing passenger automobiles: in HQ H302821 (July 26,
2019), CBP determined that assembling five subassem-
blies together into an automobile in Sweden did not re-
sult in a substantial transformation, and that the origin
of the automobile was China for the purpose of apply-
ing Section 301 tariffs; contrasted with HQ 563403
(March 27, 2006), where CBP determined that the as-
sembly of only two subassemblies into an automobile
did result in a change in character and underwent a
substantial transformation. Notably, in HQ 563403 the
two subassemblies themselves were substantially trans-
formed from hundreds of parts in a two-stage assembly
process (i.e., there was a ‘‘double substantial transfor-
mation’’ whereby hundreds of components were sub-
stantially transformed into two distinct subassemblies,
and then the two subassemblies were substantially
transformed into a final automobile).
These decisions illustrate that ‘‘change in character’’
assessments can be painstakingly fact specific, and may
be difficult to discern or establish for assembly opera-
tions without the necessary experience or knowledge of
customs rules and precedent.
Change in Use
Generally, the third disjunctive prong, a ‘‘change in
use,’’ exists when the end-use of the imported product
2
COPYRIGHT /H230052020 BY THE BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS, INC.

[Page 3]
is no longer interchangeable with the end-use of the
product after processing. For example, in the Ferrostaal
Metals case, the court found that the use of un-
processed and un-galvanized steel was not interchange-
able with the processed galvanized steel, in part, be-
cause the governing building and construction codes
would prevent substitution by requiring that only galva-
nized products be used.
In assembly scenarios, it must be considered whether
the end-use of the discrete components is pre-
determined before assembly into the finished good. For
example, in Energizer, the court determined that all of
the foreign components were in a prefabricated form
with a predetermined end-use as parts and components
of the final flashlight, finding that even the wires were
pre-cut to assembly length, and therefore there was no
change in ‘‘use’’ resulting from the assembly opera-
tions.
While a pre-determined end-use has not always pre-
cluded a finding of a substantial transformation, there
has been an apparent recent trend in CBP decisions fol-
lowing Energizer. These decisions have focused on the
existence of a pre-determined end-use of the compo-
nents to preclude a finding that there is a substantial
transformation, as was the case in the assembly of au-
tomobiles (HQ H302821 (July 26, 2019)), electric mo-
tors (HQ H301619 (Nov. 6, 2018)), and cable modems
(HQ H302480 (Sept. 13, 2019)). In all three rulings, the
origin was determined to be China for the purpose of
applying Section 301 tariffs.
Thus, it is important to keep in mind that the proper
enquiry is not whether individual discrete components
have a different use and function than the final com-
plete article but whether the discrete components shed
their predetermined end-use, vis-a `-vis as a discrete
component, after undergoing the processing or assem-
bly operations.
Subsidiary/Additional Factors
While the courts and CBP have adopted the ‘‘change
in name, character or use’’ standard to determine
whether an article has substantially transformed, CBP
and the courts have also, albeit inconsistently, consid-
ered other factors, commonly referred to as ‘‘subsid-
iary’’ or ‘‘additional’’ factors, to evaluate ‘‘the totality of
the circumstances.’’
These subsidiary factors include, but are not limited
to, the complexity and nature of the operations per-
formed; the costs and time of assembly; the use of spe-
cialized machinery or equipment; special skills or certi-
fications needed by the employees involved in the op-
erations; the value-added in terms of increase to the
resale price as a result of the processing; and the ‘‘es-
sential character’’ or ‘‘essence’’ of the finished article.
For instance, where there are various components
used in production, CBP has in some cases focused on
the component that imparts the ‘‘essence’’ of the fin-
ished article to determine the origin. In HQ H240193
(July 29, 2013) CBP determined that the production of a
pharmaceutical tablet, involving the mixing of various
stabilizer and excipient ingredients, did not result in a
change in the chemical or physical properties, or the
medicinal use, of the foreign active pharmaceutical in-
gredient (API); and, therefore, the origin of the tablet
was conferred by the origin of the API, rather than
where it was produced.
In addition, where the processing operation involves
assembly operations, the courts have considered
whether the assembly operation is sufficiently complex
or meaningful as opposed to assembly operations that
are minor or simple. However, proving that an assem-
bly operation is sufficiently complex can itself be a
complex task.
Other contrasting examples can be found in the re-
cent decisions in HQs H303864 (Dec. 26, 2019) and
H303865 (Jan. 23, 2020) involving the assembly of elec-
tric motors into a pump. In H303864, CBP determined
that the country of origin of an automobile windshield-
washer pump assembled in Mexico and incorporating
Mexican and Chinese origin components, was China for
the purpose of applying Section 301 tariffs because the
Chinese electric motor was the most expensive compo-
nent and imparted the ‘‘essence’’ of the pump, while the
assembly was simple.
In H303865, however, the country of origin of a dish-
washer pump assembled in Serbia, from a majority of
Chinese components, was determined to be Serbia be-
cause the discrete Chinese parts were first assembled
into subassemblies in Serbia, including the electric mo-
tor, and then the subassemblies were assembled into
the pump, also in Serbia. In the latter case, the first, or
intervening, subassembly operation caused the Chinese
parts to lose their identity when finally assembled into
the final pump. This highlights another instance where
the apparent ‘‘double substantial transformation’’ and
totality of the circumstances was critical to the origin
outcome.
As these decisions demonstrate, caution should al-
ways be exercised when relying on subsidiary factors
alone as there is no exhaustive list of acceptable factors
and, as noted by the CIT in Energizer, the application of
these factors has been historically inconsistent, not only
with respect to the weight that the courts and CBP have
respectively given to each factor, but also in deciding
whether they apply at all. For instance, the CIT in Ener-
gizer declined to adopt an ‘‘essential character’’ analy-
sis, calling it a subsidiary consideration ‘‘at best,’’ not-
withstanding that CBP had adopted said analysis at the
administrative level to determine the origin of the flash-
light, see HQ H215657 (April 29, 2013).
Thus, a sound approach is to consider the relevant
subsidiary factors primarily as a cross-check to the
‘‘name, character or use’’ analysis. For example, if an
importer is claiming Vietnamese origin for an article as-
sembled in Vietnam, but the overwhelming majority of
significant or ‘‘essential’’ components and costs are
conferred by components originating in China, there
would be a significant risk the final assembled article
may be of Chinese origin. In such a case, the importer
should otherwise establish, and support, a change in
‘‘character’’ or ‘‘use’’ as an exercise in reasonable care.
Industry Specific Considerations
To add to the complexity, there are nuanced and
evolving considerations to these determinations that
vary by industry. For instance, it is a long-standing CBP
position that the assembly of watch components (e.g.,
battery, movement, dial, case, band, etc.) into a finished
watch is generally not considered to be a substantial
transformation and thus, the country of origin of the en-
tire watch, for tariff purposes, is determined by the
3
COPYRIGHT /H230052020 BY THE BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS, INC.

[Page 4]
country of assembly of the watch movement—the ‘‘es-
sence’’ of the watch. Thus, the watch maintains a uni-
tary country of origin for tariff purposes, irrespective of
its different components.
For marking purposes, however, the watch band (or
strap) generally maintains its separate identity and ori-
gin, apart from the rest of the watch, based on where
the band was produced, unless the band is assembled
into the finished watch in the same country where the
movement is assembled, in which case it need not be
marked separately.
Recently, in HQ H304105 (June 25, 2019), CBP seem-
ingly departed from its precedent and merged the sepa-
rate ‘‘marking’’ and ‘‘tariff’’ positions to determine that,
in scenarios where the movement assembly and watch
assembly are undertaken in different countries, the
other components, i.e., the case and band, retain their
own respective country of origins for tariff purposes
also, and more specifically, for the purpose of assessing
Section 301 tariffs on Chinese origin components. Thus,
under this new approach a single watch could now have
several countries of origin (by component) for the pur-
pose of assessing tariffs. This novel departure from the
unitary ‘‘origin’’ approach to tariffs has created signifi-
cant consternation within the watch industry, leaving
observers to wonder whether trade policy is imbuing
technical customs determinations to reach specific out-
comes.
Innovation has also forced CBP and importers to re-
consider how the concept of ‘‘substantial transforma-
tion’’ applies in the consumer electronics industry, spe-
cifically whether traditional notions of ‘‘character’’ or
‘‘use’’ apply. Many electronic products imported into
the U.S. today incorporate at least some basic level of
technology. For example, household appliances, work
tools, and automobiles generally incorporate firmware,
software and/or printed circuit board assemblies
(PCBA) that generally are considered the ‘‘brains’’ of
the product. However, do these components provide or
merely enhance the functionality or use of the product
and do they modify the product’s physical
characteristics? The federal courts have recognized that
these issues are often a mixed question of technology
and customs law.
An often-asked question with respect to the origin of
consumer electronics is whether the assembly of for-
eign components into a PCBA constitutes a substantial
transformation of the PCBA components. Generally,
CBP has determined that where complex surface mount
technology is used to load a raw printed circuit board
with diodes, transistors, capacitors, memory chips, and
task-specific integrated circuits, there is a substantial
transformation of the components into the PCBA. This
is consistent with the court decision in Texas Instru-
ments, Inc. v. United States . However, the number of
components, steps involved, skill of workers, complex-
ity of assembly, and cost of machinery, are factors for
consideration.
The more challenging question is whether a PCBA
imparts or confers the ‘‘essential character’’ (and ori-
gin) to the article/machine in which the PCBA is incor-
porated or assembled. There is no bright-line rule here,
with the answer to be determined on a case-by-case ba-
sis. Take for example, HQ 561232 (April 20, 2004)
where it was determined that the PCBA conferred the
essence (and origin) to an FM radio tuner; or HQ
H303140 (April 19, 2019) where the PCBA did not con-
fer the essence to an electric motor; or HQ H301910
(August 5, 2019) where the PCBA plus other compo-
nents such as the firmware, together, conferred the es-
sential character to a mailing machine engine.
The existence of software and firmware further com-
plicates the origin story by adding unique qualities and
characteristics to a product. In most instances, the ab-
sence of required software and firmware means the
product cannot function as intended. Thus, when soft-
ware or firmware is incorporated into a product, there
are additional considerations that must be taken into
account when assessing whether a ‘‘substantial trans-
formation’’ has taken place. For instance, does the mere
downloading of software or firmware generally result in
a substantial transformation?
Generally, merely loading a product with software or
firmware does not on its own result in a substantial
transformation; however, it is a factor among several
factors to be considered. Products incorporating soft-
ware or firmware must still satisfy the change in name,
character, or use standard. In this regard, although of-
ten loosely referred to interchangeably, ‘‘loading’’ (or
installing) software is considered to be distinct from
‘‘programming,’’ the latter generally determined by the
CIT in the case of Data General Corp. v. United States ,
to involve a physical and permanent change to the fuses
and patterns of interconnectors within the PROMs that
result in a substantial transformation, whereas the for-
mer may be rewritable. Thus, generally, the location
where software/firmware is embedded into a product is,
by itself, not determinative of the origin of the product,
as the operation does not typically result in a change in
physical character.
Whether the software/firmware results in a change in
‘‘use’’ should also be considered. In this regard, factors
to be considered include the origin of where the
software/firmware is developed; and whether the
software/firmware completely provides or changes the
function of the product rather than merely enhancing or
adding to existing functionality.
As a result, importers are cautioned to exercise due
diligence and, where appropriate, consider seeking a
binding-ruling concerning novel issues representing
mixed questions of technology and customs law.
CONCLUSION
The ‘‘country of origin’’ is a concept of significant im-
portance in administering the customs and trade laws
and to determine, inter alia , the tariffs (or tariff prefer-
ences) that apply to imported products. Companies of-
ten consider making modifications to supply chains or
manufacturing operations to achieve a particular ‘‘ori-
gin,’’ and corresponding tariff, outcome. However, the
‘‘origin’’ story can be a complicated one, generally, de-
termined on a case-by-case basis requiring both quanti-
tative data and qualitative judgements, and often should
take into account unique industry perspectives. When a
significant investment is involved, it may be advisable
to consult with an expert with the necessary experience
and knowledge of customs rules since it may be pos-
sible to modify or move only certain critical operations
to achieve a change in origin, as was the case in HQ
N302435 (March 4, 2019).
An important first step should be to identify the pur-
pose of the ‘‘origin’’ enquiry to determine which set of
origin rules apply (e.g., for tariff or marking purposes).
4
COPYRIGHT /H230052020 BY THE BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS, INC.

[Page 5]
If a ‘‘substantial transformation’’ is required, the
‘‘name, character or use’’ standard should be applied,
taking into account the totality of the circumstances. In
an assembly operation, the discrete components should
generally be constructively segregated after assembly
to assess whether the key components have undergone
a change in character or use post-assembly, bolstered
by ‘‘subsidiary’’ factors. The analysis should also be
documented to demonstrate the exercise of reasonable
care to avoid costly customs penalties and, if the story
is complex, importers may consider seeking a binding
ruling from CBP.
As if this origin story isn’t complicated enough, the
high tariffs of the current trade wars raise the stakes for
both importers and the government. This has resulted
in heightened compliance scrutiny of origin issues and
recent CBP determinations that seemingly depart from
precedent, raising speculation that specific ‘‘country of
origin’’ outcomes may be colored by short term policy
goals, but may leave long-lasting technical uncertainty
in this field. And so the plot thickens. . . . and like any
good story, we continue to turn the page to the next
chapters to find out how it ends.
This column does not necessarily reﬂect the opinion
of The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. or its owners.
Author Information
Luis (Lou) Abad ( labad@kpmg.com)is a principal
and Donald Hok ( dhok@kpmg.com) is a senior man-
ager in the trade and customs services group of the
Washington National Tax practice of KPMG LLP. Abad
is based in New York City; Hok is based in Irvine, Ca-
lif.
The information contained herein is of a general na-
ture and based on authorities that are subject to
change. Applicability of the information to speciﬁc situ-
ations should be determined through consultation with
your tax adviser. This article represents the views of the
author or authors only, and does not necessarily repre-
sent the views or professional advice of KPMG LLP.
KPMG is one of the world’s leading professional ser-
vices ﬁrms, providing innovative business solutions and
audit, tax, and advisory services to many of the world’s
largest and most prestigious organizations.
KPMG LLP is the independent U.S. member ﬁrm of
KPMG International Cooperative (‘‘KPMG Interna-
tional’’). KPMG International’s independent member
ﬁrms have 219,000 professionals working in 147 coun-
tries and territories.Learn more at www.kpmg.com/us.
5
COPYRIGHT /H230052020 BY THE BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS, INC.