Trump-Milei trade deal: Prelude to a critical minerals pact or a US-Argentina FTA?
The trade agreement between Presidents Donald Trump and Javier Milei aims to increase reciprocal investment and commerce between the United States and Argentina. One of its focuses is on critical minerals, and it could ultimately transform the South American nation into a strategic supplier for U.S. plans.
Although definitions are still lacking and internal formalities need to be completed in each country, the framework of the agreement - announced by the White House on November 13 - establishes that Argentina and the United States must promote trade in minerals.
The text also indicates that Argentina must facilitate US exports of medicines, machinery, technologies, automobiles, agricultural products and various others, in exchange for the United States eliminating tariffs on Argentine imports, particularly for "natural resources not available (in the US)".
The instrument could ultimately boost a free trade agreement (FTA), considering that in 2024 the United States was the second largest destination for Argentine exports with a total of US$6.45bn, with gold and lithium being among the main products shipped.
Trump and Milei share a vision of free enterprise, private initiative and open markets, so for months they have been seeking to bring both economies closer together and take advantage of instruments such as the Argentine incentive regime for large investments, RIGI.
The US president promised Argentina economic support if Milei's political party won the last legislative elections, "in exchange for conditions and strategic raw materials, which gives Argentina room to maneuver, but at the same time conditions Milei's economic and political autonomy," political analyst Gastón Alvear told BNamericas.
The trade deal would allow progress on intellectual property protection clauses and necessary harmonizations, such as trade policies. It also entails the use of electronic technologies and digital signatures to streamline procedures. In other words, it aims to eliminate all non-tariff barriers that could affect trade.
However, this coincides with the US' interest in reducing its dependence on China for critical mineral supplies as part of its geopolitical strategy. Rare earth elements, lithium, copper, and silver are among the elements identified as crucial to U.S. national security.
The United States relies on imports of rare earth metals for 80% of its needs, 70% of which come from China. The consulting firm Macquarie noted in a report that China's restrictions on the export of four rare earth elements - samarium, lutetium, terbium, and dysprosium - as well as gallium, could reduce US GDP by more than US$1bn annually.
Argentina primarily produces gold, silver, and lithium, with the United States being its second largest export market. However, only 11% of lithium shipments go to the US, while 73% are shipped to China.
In addition, Argentina has several lithium projects in the pipeline and is preparing to produce over 450,000 tons by 2030. Furthermore, it has seven copper megaprojects under development (Josemaría, PSJ San Jorge, Los Azules, Mara, Pachón, Taca Taca, and Filo del Sol), along with a large number of other initiatives.
Additionally, it has geological potential to produce cobalt, chromium, graphite, manganese, nickel, platinum and zinc, which are also fundamental minerals for the sustainability of upstream markets, and has deposits with rare earth mineralizations in the provinces of Jujuy, Salta, Santiago del Estero, San Juan, San Luis, Córdoba and Buenos Aires.
The United States is seeking to counter China's excessive control of the international minerals market. Even if the agreement doesn't produce a framework for critical minerals or a FTA, it could at least open the door for the arrival of US investors who understand the mining opportunities that exist on Argentine soil.
Subscribe to the leading business intelligence platform in Latin America with different tools for Providers, Contractors, Operators, Government, Legal, Financial and Insurance industries.
China refines up to 92% of the world's rare earths; Latin America, holding 40% of copper reserves and 60% of lithium, barely takes part in that sta...
Subscribe to Latin America’s most trusted business intelligence platform.
Get critical information about thousands of Mining & Metals companies in Latin America: their projects, contacts, shareholders, related news and more.
- Company: Minera Calcatreu S.A.U. (Minera Calcatreu)
-  Minera Calcatreu S.A.U., formerly known as Minera Aquiline Argentina S.A., is a subsidiary of Patagonia Gold S.A. It was incorporated to carry out the gold-silver project Calcat...
- Company: Barrick Exploraciones Argentina S.A. (BEASA)
-  Barrick Exploraciones Argentina S.A. (Beasa) is a local subsidiary of Barrick Latam, the regional business unit of the Canadian Barrick Mining Corp. The company is involved in t...
- Company: OCM Mining S.A. (OCM Mining)
-  OCM Mining is an Argentine company focused on the development of mining projects for mineral exploration and development. The company was created in 2025 in Buenos Aires, and it...
- Company: Trendix Mining S.R.L (Trendix Mining)
-  Trendix Mining S.R.L. is an Argentine mining company primarily dedicated to the exploration and development of mineral resources, focusing on the identification of areas with ec...
- Company: Construcciones Ivica y Antonio Dumandzic S.A. (Construcciones Ivica)
-  Construcciones Ivica y Antonio Dumandzic S.A. (Construcciones Ivica) is an Argentinean firm created in 1950 and based in San Juan which is aimed at the construction of private a...
- Company: Hua Lian Mining S.A. (Hua Lian Mining)
-  Hua Lian Mining S.A. is a privately held company involved in lithium exploration and development projects in Argentina, with operations mainly in the province of San Juan. Its a...
- Company: Minera Zlato S.R.L. (Zlato Minería)
-  Minera Zlato S.R.L. is an Argentine mining company primarily dedicated to providing services to mining companies such as large-scale earthmoving, construction of leaching pads, ...
- Company: Minera San Jorge S.A.
-  PSJ Cobre Mendocino is an Argentine mining company engaged in copper prospecting, exploration, and mining development. It was created in 1997 and is headquartered in the city of...
- Company: Rio Tinto Lithium (Argentina)
-  Rio Tinto Lithium (Argentina) is the name under which Rio Tinto groups and commercially presents its lithium operations in Argentina, serving as the management unit and brand th...
- Company: Exar S.A.
-  Exar, whose corporate name is Exar S.A. and which was previously known as Minera Exar, is a mining company of Argentine origin focused on the production of battery-grade lithium...