CLA-2-85:OT:RR:NC:N1:102
Ms. Erika Quinones 
Greatbatch Medical 
2498 Roll Drive, Suite 909 
San Diego, CA 92154
RE:	The tariff classification of two battery packs consisting of various Battery Cells from various countries (China, Japan, Taiwan, Korea).  
Dear Ms. Quinones:
In your letter dated May 9, 2017 you requested a tariff classification ruling.  Descriptive literature was submitted with your request.
The items being imported are two types of battery pack assemblies that are used to power medical devices.  In the information provided, the non-rechargeable battery pack assemblies are said to consist of a series of cells that are welded together and placed inside plastic cases that are sealed by ultrasonic welding or glue.  The rechargeable battery pack assemblies consist of a series of cells welded together that are covered with a heat shrink plastic tube.  The battery packs are made of either Lithium-Ion, Lead Acid, Manganese Dioxide, or Nickel battery cells and are described as being capable of providing power prior to being assembled into battery packs.                          
The applicable subheading for the non-rechargeable battery packs comprised of Manganese Dioxide battery cells will be 8506.10.0000, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), which provides for "Primary cells and primary batters; parts thereof: Manganese dioxide." The rate of duty will be 2.7 percent ad valorem.
The applicable subheading for the non-rechargeable battery packs comprised of lithium battery cells will be 8506.50.0000, HTSUS, which provides for primary cells and primary batteries; lithium.  The rate of duty will be 2.7 percent ad valorem. 
The applicable subheading for the rechargeable battery packs of Lithium-ion battery cells will be 8507.60.0020, HTSUS, which provides for Electric storage batteries, including separators therefor, whether or not rectangular; Lithium-ion batteries: Other.  The rate of duty will be 3.4 percent ad valorem.
The applicable subheading for the rechargeable battery packs of Nickel-Cadmium battery cells will be 8507.30.8010, HTSUS, which provides for "Electric storage batteries, including separators therefor, whether or not rectangular (including square); parts thereof: Nickel-cadmium storage batteries: Other: Sealed."  The rate of duty will be 2.5 percent ad valorem.
The applicable subheading for the rechargeable battery packs of Nickel Metal Hydride battery cells will be 8507.50.0000, HTSUS, which provides for Electric storage batteries, including separators whether or not rectangular (including square); parts thereof: Nickel-metal hydride batteries.  The rate of duty will be 3.4 percent ad valorem.
The applicable subheading for the rechargeable battery packs of sealed lead acid battery cells will be 8507.20.8090, HTSUS, which provides for “electric storage batteries, including separators therefore, whether or not rectangular (including square); parts thereof: Other lead-acid storage batteries: Other.  The rate of duty will be 3.5 percent ad valorem.	
Duty rates are provided for your convenience and are subject to change.  The text of the most recent HTSUS and the accompanying duty rates are provided on the World Wide Web at https://hts.usitc.gov/current.
This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Part 177 of the Customs Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
A copy of the ruling or the control number indicated above should be provided with the entry documents filed at the time this merchandise is imported.  If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National Import Specialist Sandra Martinez at [email protected].
Sincerely,
Steven A. Mack
Director
National Commodity Specialist Division