Issue 2025-08R3
September 2, 2025 update: On August 19, 2025, the US Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) published a notice that expands the list of derivative steel and aluminum articles subject to import tariffs under section 232 of the US Trade Expansion Act of 1962. Effective August 18, 2025 (12:01 am ET), the BIS added 407 Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) codes to the list of products that will be considered as steel and aluminum derivative products for purposes of the 50% tariffs. The non‑steel and non‑aluminum content of products with these HTSUS codes (listed in the notice’s annex) will continue to be subject to US reciprocal and other tariffs, as applicable.
As previously mentioned in our June 9, 2025 update, on June 3, 2025, US President Donald Trump signed an executive order that, effective June 4, 2025 (12:01 am ET):
so that if the steel and aluminum tariffs apply, the same good would be exempt from the border security tariff; this ensures that the higher 50% rate applies to steel and aluminum products imported into the United States. However, no changes were made with respect to the auto tariff – if those tariffs apply, the same good would be exempt from both the steel and aluminum tariffs and the border security tariff.
Canadian businesses that export goods to the United States, that are subject to both the aluminum and/or steel tariffs, and other tariffs imposed under section 232 and/or the IEEPA, will have to carefully consider the “stacking” order of operations and determine the optimal application of these tariffs on each of their goods to minimize the amount of duties on each imported good. This includes considering whether it remains beneficial to continue relying on the Canada-United States-Mexico Agreement (CUSMA) to be exempt from some of these tariffs.
For example, an automobile part that qualifies for CUSMA will be exempt from the 25% auto tariff, but if that part is also on the aluminum derivatives list, it will then be subject to the 50% aluminum tariff. However, if the business does not claim CUSMA for that part, the part will instead be subject to the 25% auto tariff, which will then exempt it from being subject to the 50% aluminium tariff. Accordingly, a business might have to decide for each part, based on the value of the part’s aluminum content, whether it is more beneficial for the part to be subject to (i) a 50% tariff on the aluminum content, or (ii) a 25% tariff on the total value of the part.
As previously mentioned in our March 14, 2025 update, on March 12, 2025, the United States started applying a 25% tariff on imports of steel and aluminum products from all countries, including Canada. In response, the Canadian government announced that Canada would impose, starting March 13, 2025, a 25% surtax on an additional $29.8 billion*** worth of US‑origin goods (Canada was already applying a surtax on $30 billion of US origin goods, effective March 4, 2025).**** A remission of Canadian surtax may be available for eligible goods.
In addition, steel and aluminum products from Canada could also be subject to the 25% tariff imposed on Canadian-origin goods under the IEEPA, which had become effective March 4, 2025.**** However, with exemptions that were made available, effective March 7, 2025, for imported goods that qualify as originating goods under the CUSMA, the tariffs under the IEEPA may not be imposed at the time of import with the requisite evidentiary support.
The remainder of this Tax Insights was published on February 12, 2025. Except for a minor revision to the title, it has not been altered to reflect the August 19, 2025 BIS notice, US President Trump’s June 3, 2025 and April 29, 2025 orders and the Department of Finance’s March 12, 2025 announcement.
* An exception was temporarily made for the UK to give the US and UK time to enact the US-UK Economic Prosperity Deal, which had been signed on May 8, 2025. If this deal is not implemented, the US could revise this exception for the UK.
 ** On April 29, 2025, US President Trump had signed an executive order that, retroactive to goods imported into the United States after March 3, 2025, eliminated the “stacking” of certain tariff rates, so that only one of those tariffs (i.e. imposed under section 232 and the IEEPA) applies to the imported good (to the extent that they apply to the same good). The order included a set of ordering rules to determine which tariffs would apply to the imported goods.
 ***  The $29.8 billion worth of goods included: (i) a list of steel products worth $12.6 billion and aluminum products worth $3 billion, and (ii) other imported goods worth $14.2 billion, such as tools, computers and servers, display monitors, sport equipment and cast-iron products. See Department of Finance, Backgrounder “List of products from the United States subject to 25 per cent tariffs effective March 13, 2025” (released March 12, 2025) at www.canada.ca/en/department-finance.html.
 **** See our Tax Insights “US tariffs and Canadian countermeasures: How will it affect Canadian businesses?” for an update of the status of:
  - the US tariffs under the IEEPA (see the “August 7, 2025 update”)
  - the retaliatory 25% Canadian surtax (see the “September 2, 2025 update”)
On February 10 and 11, 2025, US President Donald Trump signed two executive orders1 that will impose, starting March 12, 2025, a 25% tariff on imports of steel and aluminum products from all countries, including Canada.
The orders are issued under section 232 of the US Trade Expansion Act of 1962 and cite reasons relating to “national security” to protect and revitalize the US domestic steel and aluminum industries to achieve “sustainable capacity utilization of at least 80%.”
The US tariffs will affect consumers and many businesses, because steel and aluminum are key components of products in many industries, from consumer goods (e.g. cars, appliances, cans for food and beverages) to large infrastructure projects. They will increase costs and disrupt supply chains (e.g. the automotive manufacturing sector is highly integrated across North America) and reduce profit margins.
Starting March 12, 2025, imports of Canadian steel and aluminum products into the United States could face tariffs that exceed 25%, if the proposed 25% tariff on imported goods under the US International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) is also implemented.2 Due to two distinct legal pathways, Canadian steel and aluminum imports could be subject to a combined 50% tariff (i.e. a 25% tariff under the IEEPA and the additional 25% tariff under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962.)
Primary producers of Canadian steel and aluminum should evaluate their sales channels to assess alternative markets where product sales would not face tariffs. To mitigate the impact of these tariffs, Canadian producers could also engage with their supply chain to negotiate lower raw material input costs and consider selling existing primary metal inventories to US clients before the tariffs are implemented. Staying informed of ongoing developments, including potential government incentives that could help the affected industries, and engaging in industry advocacy efforts can also be beneficial.
The executive orders signed on February 10 and 11, 2025 revise previous executive orders that had imposed, starting in March 2018, a 25% tariff on imports of steel products and a 10% tariff on imports of aluminum products. However, the previous executive orders had provided exemptions to certain countries (e.g. Canada had an exemption until May 31, 2018, and then from May 20, 2019 onwards).
Key provisions in the February 10 and 11, 2025 executive orders include:
These tariffs will have a significant negative impact on Canada’s steel and aluminum industries, which export a considerable amount of their products to the United States. The impact would be even more devastating if the tariffs were 50% (as discussed above), instead of 25%. As mentioned above, Canadian steel and aluminum primary producers should evaluate their sales channels to assess alternative markets and engage with their supply chain to negotiate lower raw material input costs.
For Canadian companies procuring goods or components from the United States that contain material amounts of steel or aluminum, those goods or components are likely to have significant price increases to reflect the impact of US tariffs. These businesses should evaluate their supply chain options to understand the full impact of the tariffs on their input costs and identify alternative suppliers of goods or components from non-tariff countries. It is imperative to implement cost and cash management strategies, such as negotiating better terms with existing suppliers or finding efficiencies in their production or administrative processes. Businesses will need to adjust pricing strategies to reflect the increased costs, but still keep prices competitive, and seek cash flow mitigation strategies to manage a potential margin shortfall. In addition, importers of US steel and aluminum goods or components could consider increasing inventory levels of steel and aluminium products before the tariffs take effect to avoid immediate cost impacts.
We expect that Canada will announce measures to counter these US tariffs (e.g. imposing a Canadian surtax on certain US-origin imports). PwC can help your business navigate this current tariff situation. See our:
1. Executive Orders “Adjusting Imports of Steel into The United States” (February 10, 2025) and “Adjusting Imports of Aluminum into The United States” (February 11, 2025).
 2. For more information on the IEEPA tariffs that were implemented on March 4, 2025, see our Tax Insights “US tariffs and Canadian countermeasures: How will it affect Canadian businesses?.”