[Page 1]
Supply Chain Challenges Impacting  
Electric Vehicle Adoption 


[Page 2]
Table of Contents
02 Introduction 
03  State of EV Adoption 
03 EV Sales Surge Among Consumers  
04 Manufacturers’ New Model Commitments Spike Adoption 
05   Fleet Electrification Continues 
06   Commercial EVs & Trucks 
07  The Importance of Price Parity in Driving Adoption 
07 What’s Driving EV Inflation  
08 The Role of Federal Incentives 
08   The Critical Role EV Batteries Play
09  Supply Chain Constraints Threatening EV Growth 
09   Global Computer Chip Shortage 
10    Minerals Shortage 
11     Ukraine Conflict
12  Building a Robust EV Supply Chain in the U.S. 
12    Boosting Domestic Semiconductor Chip Manufacturing 
13    Building a Domestic Battery Supply Chain 
15    North American EV Battery Plant Commitments 
16    Domestic Sourcing of Critical Metals 
16    Buying Direct from Mines
17  The Role of Technology 
17    Battery Chemistry Reformulations 
19    Extension of First Life for Batteries 
20   The Role of Recycling 
22   Direct Lithium Extraction & Enhanced Metals Recovery
23 Innovative Solutions Will Overcome Supply Chain Challenges and Propel Our Electric Future
01

[Page 3]
02
Vehicle electrification is gathering steam. But supply chain disruptions and the soaring cost of raw materials, 
exacerbated by geopolitical conflicts, threaten to put the brakes on electric vehicle (EV) sales just as demand 
is taking off. This convergence of factors has presented automakers with a significant opportunity to reshape 
their EV businesses and modernize business models. All this tests supply chains, increasing expectations for 
battery lifecycle management and the technology and policy incentives that power the industry.
The battery pack is the most expensive part of an EV, contributing to up to 40% of the cost of a new EV. In the 
near term, meeting increased EV production commitments and demand means more mining. The U.S. reliance 
on importing materials critical to EV battery production has become an economic and national security 
vulnerability. Fortunately, the U.S. has the resources to build an EV supply chain strategy from the mine up. 
While efforts to jumpstart critical mineral production for the metals that can be found stateside are currently 
underway, it takes time. Further, for metals not common in scale in the U.S., like cobalt, first-life extension and 
recycling become more important.
While recycling EV batteries minimizes the amount of mining needed to meet growing demand both the 
technology and volumes of end-of-life EV batteries are in the early stages. That’s why end to end EV battery 
lifecycle management, extending first life through responsible servicing has emerged as a linchpin to deliver on 
the sustainability goals of electrification. 
Coupled with government policy support, EV battery first life extension is paving the way for meaningful 
progress in protecting the planet while accelerating the uptake of EVs in a challenging environment.
Lea Malloy 
Head of EV Battery Solutions,  
Cox Automotive Mobility

[Page 4]
03
State of EV Adoption
EV Sales Surge Among Consumers 
Americans are buying EVs at a record pace, despite rising prices and long waits for delivery. Many consumers, 
alarmed by double-digit increases in gas prices, have been looking to EVs to help stabilize their budgets. While 
gas prices have been on the decline as of late, they remain well above historical levels.
According to Cox Automotive, EV sales in the U.S. jumped 66.4% to 196,788 units in the second quarter 2022 
compared to the same period a year ago – a record high – while overall new car sales slumped (20.4%).1 In the 
second quarter of 2022, there were 33 EV models for sale in the U.S., an increase from the 19 available the same 
period last year.
Electrified Vehicle Sales Growth
Q2 2022 Q2 2021 Y-O-Y
EVs 196,788 118,235 66.4%
HEVs/PHEVs 245,204 272,935 -10.2%
Fuel Cell 796 1,074 -25.9%
Total Electrified 442,788 392,244 12.9%
Total Market 3,522,210 4,422,544 -20.4%
% Electrified 12.6% 8.9% 41.7%
Source: Cox Automotive
1 Cox Automotive Data Point, “EV Sales Hit New Record in Q2 2022,” July 13, 2022.


[Page 5]
04
Automaker EV Model Commitments in U.S. & Europe Current Offerings by Body Type
BMW Group Nine all-electric models by 2025  
(includes two Mini models)
SUV/Crossover – 2
Sedan/Coupe – 3 (additional 1 upcoming in 2023)
Ford
Two new dedicated all-electric manufacturing  
platforms by 2025
European line-up all-electric by 2030
SUV/Crossover – 1 (additional 1 upcoming in 2024)
Pickup Truck – 1
Van – 1
General Motors
30 new all-electric vehicles globally by 2025
Heavy-duty all-electric trucks by 2035
SUV/Crossover – 4 (additional 2 upcoming in 2023)
Pickup Truck – 2
Honda
30 all-electric vehicles globally by 2030
Honda/GM partnership for lower-cost,  
higher volume EVs for sale starting in 2027
SUV/Crossover – 2 (upcoming in 2024)
Sedan/Coupe – 1 (sold in Europe and Japan)
Hyundai 23 all-electric models by 2025 SUV/Crossover – 5
Sedan/Coupe – 1 (upcoming in 2023)
Jaguar/Land Rover 
Jaguar all-electric by 2025 
Six all-electric Land Rovers by 2026
Land Rover all-electric by 2030
SUV/Crossover – 1
Mazda Three all-electric models by 2025 SUV/Crossover – 1
Mercedes-Benz
130 electrified models by 2030 – including EVs,  
plug-in hybrids, traditional hybrids
All-electric from 2025 onward
SUV/Crossover – 1
Sedan/Coupe – 2
Nissan At least 15 all-electric vehicles globally by 2030 SUV/Crossover – 2
Stellantis 40 all-electric models in the U.S. & Europe by 2025
SUV/Crossover – 1
Sedan/Coupe – 3 (additional 1 upcoming in 2024)
Pickup Truck – 1 (upcoming in 2024)
Van – 4
Toyota
15 all-electric vehicles globally by 2025
Lexus all electric by 2035 SUV/Crossover – 2
Volvo
All Volvos from 2019 onward have electric motors
50% all-electric/50% hybrid global sales by 2025 SUV/Crossover – 2
VW Group
70 new models of electric vehicles between  
2020-2026 
25 all-electric vehicles in North America by 2030
SUV/Crossover – 7 (additional 1 upcoming in 2023)
Sports Car – 1 (additional 1 upcoming in 2025)
Van – 1 (upcoming in 2023)
Source: Wonder Research, official OEM websites and press releases
Manufacturers’ New Model Commitments Spike Adoption
The introduction of new electric models – including the highly anticipated pickup truck segment – is also 
fueling consumer interest. Today’s EVs have moved beyond the luxury segment with more offerings from 
established legacy brands – and lower price tags. In short, EVs and those who want to buy them, are on the 
path to becoming mainstream.

[Page 6]
05
Startups like Rivian, Lucid, Fisker and others are 
also staking their claim in the era of electrification. 
In fact, Rivian’s R1T pickup, named the 2022 Motor 
Trend Truck of the Year, is now on sale. And, Lucid is 
now delivering the touring model of the Air sedan, 
named the 2022 Motor Trend Car of the Year.
These growing EV model commitments have also 
increased demand for the components that power 
these vehicles and highlighted the need for a more 
efficient, reliable supply chain model. 
Fleet Electrification Continues
In addition to consumer adoption, the fleet industry is taking note. To achieve sustainability goals,  
drive efficiency and reduce total cost of ownership, fleet operators are highly motivated to replace their  
gas-powered fleets with EVs. 
EVs are already appearing in fleets, with a current adoption rate of 17% of new fleet vehicle purchases and an 
additional 65% of fleet operators identifying as EV shoppers. With fleets representing 11.4% of the car parc in 
the U.S. alone, this demand is further straining a supply chain already stretched thin. 
Source: Escalent 2021 Fleet Electrification Impact of Infrastructure Report
17%
6%
65%
12%
3%
Adopter
Defector
Shopper
Non-considerer: 
Open/Familiar
Total
Fleet Size
12%
6%
65%
17%
18%
6%
69%
7%
35%
5%
57%
68%
32%
Micro Small Medium Large

[Page 7]
06
Commercial EVs & Trucks
Despite making up only about 10% of vehicles on the road, heavy-duty vehicles are responsible for 28% of 
greenhouse gas emissions, 45% of nitrogen oxides, and 57% of fine particulate pollution from vehicles in the  
U.S.2 Accelerating the manufacture and adoption of clean trucks is crucial for meaningful reductions in  
climate-warming and toxic air pollution.
Van & Step Van Delivery Vehicles 
All major delivery companies are starting to replace 
their gas-powered fleets with electric or low-emission 
vehicles, a switch that companies say will boost their 
bottom lines, while also fighting climate change and 
urban pollution.
Compared to the 18-wheelers that carry packages 
between states, last-mile delivery vehicles – typically 
vans and smaller trucks – are much easier to 
electrify as range is typically not a major challenge. 
Furthermore, they can be charged at fleet depots, 
a driver’s home or at public charging stations. And 
the total cost of ownership of electric versions of 
these vehicles is approaching parity with diesel- 
and gasoline-powered vehicles once incentives are 
factored in.
The North American Council on Freight Efficiency 
(NACFE) estimates that a gas-powered delivery 
van driving an average of 100 miles per day will 
spend just over $10,000 a year in fuel versus just 
under $2,000 for an electric one – sizeable savings 
multiplied across a fleet of EV delivery vehicles. 
Amazon operates thousands of electric delivery vans 
and has ordered 100,000 from EV-maker Rivian. UPS 
has ordered 10,000 electric vans from EV company 
Arrival. One-fifth of DHL ’s delivery fleet is electric 
with Lightning eMotors electric cargo vans. By 2030, 
FedEx is aiming to have all new vehicle purchases be 
electric and to electrify its entire pickup and delivery 
fleet by 2040. The United States Post Office recently 
revised its EV fleet purchases from 10% to 40% of 
new vehicles.
Box Trucks 
Box trucks have a cargo box that is inaccessible 
from the cab, and they are longer than vans/step 
van delivery vehicles. Box trucks are often used 
as moving vans by companies such as U-Haul and 
Ryder. There are approximately 400,000 of them in 
the United States and Canada. 
According to NACFE, this entire segment is 
electrifiable. That’s because box trucks tend to travel 
less than 100 miles per day, making them ideal for 
electric powertrains. Although these trucks are more 
likely to face weight limitations as they often carry 
quite heavy cargo, the reality is that often the freight 
compartment fills up before reaching the legal gross 
vehicle weight.
Electric box trucks are already on the roads today. For 
example, Frito-Lay has six 220EV Peterbilt electric box 
trucks and Day & Ross, a transportation and logistics 
company, is using electric box trucks in Canada.
Big Rigs 
Heavy-duty tractor-trailers are also moving toward 
electrification. But this segment is a bit more 
challenging to electrify because of the longer ranges 
and heavier loads. However, a recent RMI study found 
that 49% of these heavy-duty trucks operating in 
New York and California are regularly driving  
short-enough routes that they could be replaced  
with electric trucks that are now for sale or will be by 
year-end.
Anheuser-Busch is already using heavy-duty electric 
trucks to deliver throughout California and has 
ordered another 20 from BYD. Biaggi Brothers is 
delivering wine from Napa Valley in heavy-duty 
electric trucks.
The greatest concern to scaling the number of 
commercial EVs at a site is the lead times for the 
charging infrastructure as well as the incremental cost 
to install charging solutions for your fleet. If the number 
of commercial EV chargers at a site requires significant 
infrastructure updates, fleet owners will need to work 
with utilities and municipalities to coordinate the work. 
Concerted efforts will have to be made to redesign 
parking lots and depots to support electrification. 
2  Union of Concerned Scientists,  “Congress Considers First-Ever Purchase Incentives for Commercial EVs”, August 2, 2022.
“ An EV uses a fraction of the energy that an internal 
combustion engine (ICE) uses to keep the cab cool 
or warm for driver shelter. In one hour, a diesel burns 
about a half a gallon (approx. US$2.80). Also remember 
that a combustion engine has nearly 10,000 parts on 
average, whereas an EV only has approximately 700.  
All in all, EV maintenance costs are about 60%-70%  
less than ICE maintenance costs. ”
-  Terry Rivers 
VP Maintenance & Provost of FleeTec Academy 

[Page 8]
07
The Importance of Price Parity in Driving Adoption
The average price paid for a new EV is on the decline as lower-priced models  
enter the market and offset the many luxury EVs already available. Still, the  
average price for a new EV – more than $64,000 according to Kelley Blue  
Book estimates – is well above the auto industry average of $47,148 and  
more aligned with luxury prices than mainstream prices.3 So, while EVs can  
offset higher prices over time in terms of lower operating costs, the upfront  
investment remains cost-prohibitive for many American households. 
At some point, EVs should become less expensive to buy than  
gas-powered, internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles. But rising  
raw material prices could delay the timeline on cost parity between  
EV and ICE vehicles. Although EVs, on average, are still more  
expensive to buy than ICE vehicles, unstable gas prices create significant  
fluctuations in the cost to operate ICE vehicles. So, gas price anxiety could  
serve as a counterbalance, spurring greater interest in EVs after years  
of growing demand for gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks.
What’s Driving EV Inflation 
The electric segment also has been hit by the tide of inflation affecting the overall auto industry since the 
spring of 2021. 
Most EV batteries utilize four principal minerals: lithium makes up 10% of the battery, cobalt 18%, manganese 
25% and nickel accounts for 45%, according to Nature, a scientific journal. 
Rising minerals prices threaten to slow and even temporarily reverse the long-term trend of falling costs 
of batteries, the most expensive part of EVs. In the short term, the cost of building EVs is going up as the 
demand for key materials increases and the supply remains challenged. 
•  Despite retreating from April highs, the price of lithium has jumped more than 600% since the start of 
the year, according to Benchmark Market Intelligence. The increase comes as the process for extracting 
lithium, and a relative lack of investment, has yet to catch up with the rising demand.
•  Limited availability of cobalt has also inflated cobalt prices in recent months. Supply chain hiccups and fears 
over access have tightened supply. The price for cobalt is 71.8% higher in late May 2022 compared to 2021.
•  It has been an extraordinarily volatile year for the nickel market. Prices nearly tripled in three days alone 
in March 2022 over fears of supply shortages as the invasion of Ukraine by nickel powerhouse Russia 
intensified, and Western nations tightened sanctions. While the price has somewhat rebounded as of 
late, it remains 57.2% higher year over year.4
Raw material costs for EVs more than doubled during the coronavirus pandemic, according to a recent 
report by AlixPartners. Average raw material costs for an EV totaled $8,255 per vehicle as of May 2022,  
up 144% from $3,381 per vehicle in March 2020. 
And the cost increases aren’t limited to EVs: Raw material costs for traditional vehicles have also more than 
doubled during that time period to $3,662 per vehicle, up 106% from an average of $1,779 per vehicle in 
March 2020. As a result, automakers are raising prices across the board.
3 “New-Vehicle Prices Flirt with Record High in May, according to Kelley Blue Book, as Luxury Share Remains Strong”, June 9, 2022.
4 S&P Global Commodity Insights,  “High battery metals costs add to electric vehicle sales slowdown”, June 7, 2022.
Note: Includes lithium, cobalt, nickel, and other metals.
Sources: Bloomberg, Barron’s calculations
Inflation
Proxy for the cost of metal components  
in an EV battery pack.
$6,000 per car
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
2020 '22

[Page 9]
The Role of Federal Incentives 
As part of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, the EV federal tax credit created in 2009 during the Obama 
administration, will renew in January 2023 and will last a decade to the end of 2032. This legislation 
continues to encourage automakers to embrace electrification and consumers to purchase electric by 
offsetting the cost of pricey EVs. 
The new federal tax credit can be applied upfront at the point of sale if purchased from a dealer, rather than 
needing to file for it on personal income taxes the following April.
The previous tax credit had a cap of 200,000 cars per manufacturer, a limit that Tesla and GM surpassed 
years ago, and Toyota just exceeded this quarter. Other auto manufacturers were also on track to surpass 
that number this year. Now, all manufacturers have access to unlimited credits as long as they fulfill the other 
requirements of the bill. 
New requirements include that the cars must be assembled in North America and that materials and critical 
minerals in the battery must come from the U.S. or a country with a free trade agreement with the U.S. 
These requirements are intended to spur domestic manufacturing and a more diverse supply chain for EV 
materials. The government will release these guidelines by the end of the year, but the mineral and material 
guidelines don’t go into effect until 2024.
To qualify for the federal tax credit, vehicles must have an MSRP of under $55,000 for cars and $80,000 for 
SUVs and trucks. Plus, buyers of new EVs would need to have an adjusted gross income (AGI) of less than 
$150,000 for individuals, $225,000 AGI for heads of households, and $300,000 AGI for joint filers. 
For the first time, the federal tax credit will now be available on used EVs, with a credit of up to $4,000 on 
cars priced $25,000 or less, and subject to several other requirements. For used EVs, the income caps are 
$75,000 adjusted gross income (AGI) for individuals, $112,500 AGI for heads of households, and $150,000 
AGI for joint filers.
There is also a provision that allows usage of the previous credit on a car delivered after the bill is enacted if 
there is a valid purchase order signed in 2022.
Certain states offer additional EV purchase incentives. Connecticut and Delaware lead with the highest tax 
rebates, while Maryland, California and Massachusetts follow closely behind.
The Critical Role EV Batteries Play
Batteries have emerged as a critical factor in the EV transition. Constraints in the supplies of crucial raw 
materials for batteries are hampering the rollout of EVs, even as demand vastly exceeds manufacturers’ 
current production capacities. 
In the past, the single largest barrier to EV adoption was battery cost. However, advancements in battery 
technology increased energy density, and cost savings from supply-chain efficiencies helped lower costs. 
But the recent surge in battery raw materials costs threatens to reverse falling battery expenses, possibly 
delaying price parity with ICE vehicles. 
The lack of battery supply, coupled with vehicle price inequity compared to ICE vehicles, present serious 
challenges to EV sales targets and climate goals. But The National Alliance for Advanced Transportation 
Batteries (NAATBatt) International, a trade association of companies and research institutions, looks to stabilize 
the metal supply and supply chain through manufacturing advances, including improved recycling methods. The 
organization recently held its fifth annual workshop on lithium battery recycling and lifecycle management.
08

[Page 10]
09
Supply Chain Constraints Threatening EV Growth 
Consumers looking to buy an EV face a major obstacle: finding one to buy. While some EV models may 
be easier to find than others, the pandemic, material shortages, and international conflicts have created a 
perfect storm of bottlenecks. The stuttering supply chain has some automakers warning of long waits to buy 
their most popular models.
Global Computer Chip Shortage
Global auto supply chains have been snarled by a semiconductor chip shortage. When car sales dropped 
dramatically in early 2020 during the COVID-19 lockdown, many auto manufacturers slashed orders for 
chips. So, the semiconductor industry shifted production lines to meet demand for other applications, like 
laptops, TVs and video games.
When new vehicle demand recovered faster than anticipated in the second half of 2020, chipmakers were 
inundated with orders, and they still haven’t caught up. Thus, auto manufacturers were unable to make 
enough cars because they didn’t have enough microchips. 
While the COVID-19 pandemic was the catalyst, structural factors are also part of the picture. The auto 
industry is changing, with a major shift toward automation and EVs. Microchips play a big role in today’s 
vehicles, controlling everything from windows to the navigation screen to even passenger seat sensors. 
These require more chips, causing further strain on an already stretched industry.
A limited supply of chips left automakers with a choice – build fewer cars or build them with fewer options. 
Automakers cut back and made fewer cars. They decided to put their chips into making bigger, more 
expensive vehicles to get more bang for their buck. This also means that automakers have been making 
fewer compact cars and sedans – the more affordable vehicles. The result is that new vehicle prices have 
soared. The average cost of a new traditional car is hovering at the highest level on record, topping $47,000. 
New cars, even gas-powered ones, are out of reach for many buyers.
The average EV has about 2,000 chips, roughly double the average number of chips in a non-electric car. 5 
And the chip shortage has not yet been resolved. Semiconductor capacity takes time to build, which impacts 
supply, production, and inventories.
5 News briefing,  U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, November 29, 2021.


[Page 11]
Minerals Shortage
Most batteries used to power EVs are lithium-ion batteries. According to a 2018 report from the U.S. International 
Trade Commission, lithium-ion batteries make up more than 70% of the rechargeable battery market.
The minerals needed for EV batteries can differ based on the chemistry of the cathodes, but lithium, cobalt, 
nickel, graphite, and manganese are considered to be the key materials. EVs use around six times more 
minerals than conventional vehicles.
While these minerals are abundant in the earth’s crust, the supply depends on mine production capacity. The 
exceptional rise in demand for EV batteries is now outstripping supply, with new mines not being built fast 
enough to keep pace.
10
Minerals Used in Electric Cars Compared to Conventional Cars 
Source: IEA 
Note: Steel and aluminum not included. 
The values for vehicles are for the  
entire vehicle including batteries, motors 
and glider.
Kilograms
Vehicle
0
Electric Car
Conventional Car
25 50 75 100 125 150 175 200 225
Source: IEA
Mineral Demand for Clean Energy Technologies by Scenario
SDS = Sustainable Development Scenario, NZE = Net-zero by 2050 Scenario
Demand for critical minerals is set to soar over the next two decades as the world pursues net-zero goals; 
overall requirements rise by as much as 6 times, but individual minerals, led by lithium, rise even faster
Growth to 2040 by sector
 Mt 50
40
30
20
10
Hydrogen
Electricity 
networks
EVs and 
battery storage
Other low-carbon 
power generation
Wind
Solar PV
4x
6x
2020 2040
SDS NZE
Growth in the SDS, 2040 relative to 2020
Index (2020 = 1)
 50
40
30
20
10
42x
25x
21x 19x
7x
LithiumGraphiteCobalt Nickel Rare 
earths

[Page 12]
11
6 Barrons,  “Tesla Stock Drops as Analyst Takes Worst-Case View of EV Economics”, May 12, 2022.
Ukraine Conflict
The war in Ukraine hasn’t just caused gas prices to soar. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has disrupted vehicle 
production in Europe, which sends exports to the United States. 
Impact on Raw Materials
War and sanctions have crimped the supplies of raw materials from 
Russia that carmakers need. Those include palladium, used for 
antipollution equipment in cars, and nickel, essential for EV batteries. 
In fact, the price of EV battery metals has jumped by 50% since Russia 
invaded Ukraine on February 24, 2022. 6 And Ukraine is a major source of 
neon, a gas used for high-performance lasers that, in turn, are required 
to produce those scarce semiconductors chips.
Impact on Wire Harnesses
The Ukraine invasion has also hampered wire harness 
supplies for European carmakers. According to an analysis 
of 2020 Comtrade data by consultancy AlixPartners, 
wire harnesses were Ukraine’s most critical automotive 
component exported to the European Union, accounting for 
nearly 7% of all imports of this product.
A wire harness is a vital set of parts that neatly bundles up  
to 3.1 miles of cables in the average car. Unique to each car  
model, vehicles cannot be built without them.
Source: Sumitomo Electric Wiring Systems
Automakers have had to increase capacity at other locations – requiring factory space, machinery and tools, 
workers, and financing – as well as switching to alternate sources of wiring systems in other countries that 
produce them, like Tunisia. 
The war in Ukraine has also highlighted the risks of doing business with authoritarian countries – not just 
Russia, but also China. The conflict has increased the pressure that automakers now face to manufacture 
closer to home and reduce the risk that turmoil in a faraway place will throw their operations into chaos.
Russia represents nearly 
40% of the world’s total 
palladium mine production 
and supplies 20% of global 
battery-grade nickel.
Source: Barrons


[Page 13]
12
Building a Robust EV Supply Chain in the U.S. 
The U.S. currently has a vulnerable EV supply chain heavily reliant on imports for semiconductor chips, raw 
materials and EV batteries. The country is in a sprint to produce its own EV components in order to increase 
economic competitiveness, energy independence, and to shore up national security. 
The key components of the federal EV strategy, as laid out in the 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, is to:
•  Increase domestic manufacturing of EV batteries and components 
•  Advance environmentally responsible domestic sourcing and recycling of critical minerals
Boosting Domestic Semiconductor Chip Manufacturing
The U.S. is seeking to regain leadership in the semiconductor chip industry it created. In recent decades, the 
U.S. government invested less and less in its homegrown chip industry, while other governments including 
Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, and, more recently, the European Union and China, invested more.
That’s why today’s state-of-the-art semiconductor chipmaking and packaging is currently centered in East 
Asia. This geographical concentration of the industry has contributed to global shortages. 
Congress recently approved the CHIPS Act, which awards $52 billion in government subsidies for domestic 
semiconductor chip manufacturing. The CHIPS Act funding comes with stipulations to ensure that U.S. 
subsidies are spent on building factories in the U.S and not toward expanding production of chips in China.
Meanwhile, semiconductor chipmakers are making strides to expand U.S. production: 
•  In January 2022, Intel Corporation announced plans to build what could be the largest semiconductor 
facility in the world, located in New Albany, Ohio.
•  In late 2021, Ford and Global Foundries announced 
a partnership for semiconductor manufacturing 
and technology development within the U.S. 
This agreement could result in new chip designs 
specifically for Ford as well as an increase in the 
domestic production and supply of chips for the 
overall automotive industry.
•  Wolfspeed opened a new, $1 billion semiconductor 
chip facility in upstate New York on April 25, 2022.
These efforts are designed to boost domestic 
semiconductor chip capacity and reduce America’s reliance 
on Asian manufacturing hubs.


[Page 14]
Building a Domestic Battery Supply Chain
Most of the batteries that U.S. EV manufacturers rely on come from outside of the country, with China being a 
major supplier. This is largely because the U.S. is still lacking a cradle-to-grave battery supply chain. 
The Top 10 EV Battery Manufacturers
Rank Company 2021 Market Share Country
#1 CATL 32.5% China 
#2 LG Energy Solution 21.5% Korea 
#3 Panasonic 14.7% Japan 
#4 BYD 6.9% China 
#5 Samsung SDI 5.4% Korea 
#6 SK Innovation 5.1% Korea 
#7 CALB 2.7% China 
#8 AESC 2.0% Japan 
#9 Guoxuan 2.0% China 
#10 PEVE 1.3% Japan 
Source: Elements “Ranked: The Top 10 EV Battery Manufacturers” , September 25, 2021.
China dominates the EV supply chain. Although rich deposits of battery-grade minerals are located in places 
like Australia, South America and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, China built the refineries that 
are needed to process these metals. Today, China controls nearly three-quarters of the market for the raw 
materials that go into these batteries. 
1) Based on CY 2019 production; 2) Based on CY 2021 production, NMC and NCA technology only; 3) Based on CY 2021 production; 4) Reflects recent JV between BASF (51%) 
and Hunan Shanshan (49%) for CAM.
Source: B3, Benchmark Minerals Intelligence, Roland Berger
Battery cell
Battery cell1
By company headquarters
64%
26%
9%
2%
0%
0%
Cathode active material2
By company headquarters
41%
24%
19%
16%4
0%
0%
Anode active material3
By company headquarters
71%
20%
8%
0%
0%
0%
Battery materials
Electrolyte3
By company headquarters
65%
23%
12%
0%
0%
0%
Suppliers of key battery sub-components by country/region
13

[Page 15]
14
With battery components so heavily controlled by Chinese companies, the U.S. EV supply is vulnerable to 
disruption and price instability. Ensuring a domestic battery supply chain is necessary in order meet growing 
EV demand and achieve national climate goals. 
In 2020, global EV lithium-ion cell manufacturing capacity was 747 
gigawatt-hour (GWh). The U.S. accounted for roughly 8% of that 
capacity, or approximately 59 GWh. The U.S. capacity to manufacture 
batteries for EVs is expected to grow to 224 GWh by 2025.7 But some 
analysts estimate that the U.S. alone may need 20-40 gigafactories 
over the next 15 years, with a combined terawatt (1000 GWh) of new 
battery capacity to meet projected demand.8
Currently, the United States has no centralized place-based strategy 
for its battery industry. Several states, particularly those along 
what’s known as “auto alley,” have policies and strategies in place to 
encourage battery manufacturing and industries along the battery 
supply chain.
•  For example, Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky and Tennessee are 
using economic development corporations to coordinate with private stakeholders and generate 
incentive packages to encourage new battery manufacturing plants in their states. 
•  Another approach is “innovation clusters” of complementary industries anchored around a research 
center or university. Kentucky, for example, has set up the Kentucky-Argonne Battery Manufacturing 
Research and Development Center in Lexington with both federal and state funding, to build a local 
battery supply chain hub. Similarly, Michigan provided support from the Michigan Strategic Fund attract 
EV battery R&D investments.9
Automakers and battery companies are spending unprecedented sums of money to build out North 
America’s EV battery supply chain. In just the past year, automakers and their battery suppliers have 
committed $13.5 billion to create EV battery plants in North America. (This figure does not include projects 
where manufacturers have not clarified how much of their investments are earmarked for new battery  
plants and how much will go toward the vehicle production lines that will need the batteries. So the actual 
figure is higher.)10 This includes investments being made by BlueOval SK, a joint venture between Ford Motor 
Company and SK Innovation to develop a 3,600-acre campus in Tennessee and lithium-ion battery plants  
in Kentucky.11 
Gigafactories are plants that 
produce electric batteries at 
huge scale, primarily for use 
in EVs but also for a range 
of other renewable energy 
storage applications.
Source: JustAuto
7  Senate Energy Committee Hearing,  “Full Committee Hearing to Examine the Scope and Scale of Critical Mineral Demand and Recycling of Critical Minerals”, April 7, 2022.
8  IEEE Spectrum,  “The Top Ten EV Battery Makers,” August 26, 2021.
9  Center for Strategic & International Studies,  “The United States’ Industrial Strategy for the Battery Supply Chain”, December 14, 2021.
10  Automotive News,  “$13.5B committed to North American EV battery plants only scratches the surface,” March 28, 2022.
11  CNBC .com, “Ford and SK Innovation to spend $11 billion, create 11,000 jobs on new U.S. EV and battery plants”, September 27, 2021. 

[Page 16]
15
North American EV Battery Plant Commitments 
Source: Automotive News
On May 2, 2022, the Biden administration announced that it will provide $3.1 billion in funding to support 
efforts to make EV batteries and components in the U.S. The funding, part of the Bipartisan Infrastructure 
Law enacted last year, will aid plans by U.S. companies to build new factories and retrofit existing ones to 
make EV batteries and related parts.
Across the pond, the European Union has allocated 2.9 billion euros ($3.1 billion) specifically to  
support EV battery plants, with individual member states providing additional money. As of  
March 2022, Benchmark Mineral Intelligence reports that the European Union is on track for 27 EV 
gigafactories by 2030, up from seven at year-end 2022. 
Post BREXIT, Great Britain has allocated up to 1 billion pounds ($1.2 billion) to support Britain's EV 
battery supply chain. It currently has one small 1.9 gigawatt-hour (GWh) Nissan plant in Sunderland, 
northeast England, and two larger ones planned as of May 2022.
There are 13 new battery cell gigafactories 
coming online in the U.S. by 2025, according 
to the Department of Energy. Of the 13 plants 
that are planned, 8 are joint ventures between 
automakers and battery manufacturers. Many of 
these new plants will be located in the Southeast 
or Midwest.
New Battery Plants Announced by Vehicle Manufacturers as of October 25, 2021
Manufacturer Location Expected Opening
Ford NE of Memphis, TN 2025
Ford & SK Innovation Central KY 2025
Ford & SK Innovation Central KY 2026
General Motors & LG Chem Lordstown, OH 2022
General Motors & LG Energy Solution Spring Hill, TN 2023
General Motors & LG Energy Solution TBD TBD
General Motors & LG Energy Solution TBD TBD
SK Innovation NE of Atlanta, GA 2022
SK Innovation NE of Atlanta, GA 2023
Stellantis & LG Energy Solution TBD 2024
Stellantis & Samsung SDI TBD 2025
Toyota SE of Greensboro, NC 2025
Volkswagen Chattanooga, TN TBD
Source: Automotive News

[Page 17]
Domestic Sourcing of Critical Metals
Lithium-ion batteries are expected to remain the most widely used technology for EVs for the foreseeable 
future. Responsible and sustainable domestic sourcing of the critical materials used to make those  
batteries – lithium, cobalt, nickel and graphite – will help avoid or mitigate supply chain disruptions and 
accelerate battery production in America to meet demand and support the adoption of EVs. 
President Joe Biden has invoked the Defense Production Act in a bid to boost domestic production and 
processing of key battery raw materials to reduce the country’s dependence on foreign supplies. This 
executive action aims to increase the country’s output of these minerals and require companies to prioritize 
federal rather than foreign contracts. In terms of actual financial incentives, mining companies will be able to 
access $750 million from a federal fund. 
The U.S. has enough reserves of lithium, and other metals to build millions of its own EVs, however, it takes 
years to develop new mines and processing facilities. Although the U.S. pioneered many of the methods 
of mining and extraction globally, it sold or surrendered many of those facilities in previous decades. Until 
Congress can align on stronger infrastructure spending to help build the supply chain to the next level, such 
presidential executive actions are baby steps to gain U.S. mineral and metal preeminence back. 
Buying Direct from Mines
The price volatility of critical minerals is passed downstream to battery production capacity and ultimately, 
automakers’ bottom line. So they recognize the need to vertically integrate their businesses into battery 
materials as well. Right now, that means directly sourcing raw materials from mines, instead of going through 
suppliers. This harkens a return to the historical automotive business, which was deeply integrated, and away 
from the modern auto industry, which was pushed by investors to buy raw materials via suppliers.
With the domestic mining push in its nascent stage, U.S. automakers are building long-term mining 
relationships in North America and finding stable trading partners like Australia in order to secure a steady 
supply of battery metals. According to the Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance, automakers are 
pushing mines for more transparency and audits of their practices.
16

[Page 18]
17
The Role of Technology 
Right now, the U.S. doesn’t have enough domestically supplied materials, so materials substitution and 
recycling will be key to the transition to EVs.
Battery Chemistry Reformulations 
Battery chemistries are constantly evolving, as automakers come up with new models with different 
characteristics. New ingredient formulas—in addition to new designs—are deprioritizing the need for certain 
raw materials.
The Problem with Cobalt
According to The Cobalt Institute, EVs are the top driver of cobalt demand, responsible for 34% of the 
global total in 2021. EVs use a variety of lithium-ion battery chemistries, with cobalt-containing cathodes 
currently having the largest share. This is due to their energy density and performance – cobalt is particularly 
important for stability and safety. And cobalt is relatively expensive; the U.S. Department of Energy says 
cobalt accounts for 25% of the cost of an EV battery.
To make matters worse, mining cobalt is linked to child labor, environmental damage and loss of habitat to 
local wildlife. Some 74% of mined supply comes from the Democratic Republic of Congo while 72% of the total 
production is refined in China. Both regions have been accused of environmental and human rights abuses. 
So many EV makers are moving toward low-cobalt and cobalt-free batteries, lowering production costs. 
SPARKZ, a California-based start-up is spearheading the first high-energy-density cobalt-free, lithium-ion 
battery made in America. Some automakers have also developed batteries using more nickel or aluminum  
to reduce reliance on harder-to-source, pricier metals. 

[Page 19]
18
12  IEA,  “Global Supply Chains of EV Batteries”, July 2022.
Emergence of LFP Batteries
One type of lithium-ion battery chemistry without cobalt that has gained traction with some automakers  
is Lithium Ferrous (Iron) Phosphate (LiFePo4 or LFP). Chinese EV-makers have favored LFP for a while,  
and now some American and European brands have announced that they will use LFP in lower-priced 
models. The LFP battery operates similarly to other lithium-ion batteries, however, phosphate is used instead 
of cobalt oxide. 
The biggest advantage of LFP is its low cost; the iron and phosphorus 
that make up its composition are mined at enormous scales across the 
globe and are widely used in many industries. Other advantages of 
LFP batteries are a longer lifespan and being safer than other battery 
chemistries. 
But a key sticking point for wide-scale LFP adoption has been energy 
density, which impacts driving range. LFP batteries offer only 65% 
to 70% of the density that chemistries containing nickel, cobalt, and 
manganese provide.12 This means that to achieve the same driving 
range, the physical size of an EV battery would need to be  
bigger – a concern in vehicles where space is at a premium. The 
bigger size would also make the LP battery heavier, which can reduce 
efficiency in an EV and possibly cause more wear on tires. Other 
LFP disadvantages include a slightly higher self-discharge rate and 
according to some reports, a potential loss of range in very cold 
conditions. Analysts speculate that LFP batteries will be more geared 
toward entry-level vehicles, instead of premium models.
Lithium prices have surged this year, causing a big bump in battery pack prices. So the LFP price advantage 
has been blunted somewhat. But all EV batteries use lithium, so the price rise affects all chemistries.
While battery experts believe lithium-ion batteries will continue to dominate the battery sector in the next 
decade, a number of rapidly emerging new battery technologies could potentially challenge the proposed 
future dominance of lithium-ion batteries. U.S. start-ups Factorial Energy, QuantumScape and Solid Power 
have placed big bets on solid-state technology. Solid-state batteries don’t have a liquid electrolyte and, thus, 
will be lighter, store more energy and charge faster. They are also a lot less likely to ignite and, therefore, 
need less cooling equipment.
Improvements in the energy density of EV batteries, such as the amount of energy batteries can store per 
kilogram, as well as their cycle life, how many times a battery can be charged and discharged, will also affect 
the demand for minerals. Should density and cycle life increase meaningfully, then the demand for new 
batteries and the minerals they require will fall.
Last year, the Department of Energy allocated $200 million to seven national labs where scientists are 
charged with cutting battery costs, increasing range, and getting charge times down to 15 minutes or less.
Self-discharge is when a 
battery loses the energy 
stored in it by itself – even 
when not demanding any 
energy. It happens in every 
type of battery system 
that stores energy, but the 
speed of self-discharge 
can cause concern.
Source: Panasonic Batteries

[Page 20]
19
Extension of First Life for Batteries 
Extending the first life of an EV battery reduces the need for critical materials; it’s an alternative to a new 
battery. First life extension opportunities include battery repair, refurbishment and remanufacturing. 
Remanufactured batteries are comprised of repaired components instead of sourcing, manufacturing and 
installing new batteries. The failed battery from the vehicle is removed and fixed for use in the next vehicle. 
Just like the remanufacture of an ICE transmission is 50% of the cost of replacement, first life extension of 
EV batteries is the most economical and environmentally friendly option. A remanufactured/refurbished/
repaired battery reduces the cost of replacement by up to 50% compared to a new battery.
At this juncture, not all EV batteries meet the 
technical requirements to extend the first life. 
Depending on failure type, some batteries are 
more desirable to fix due to the complexity and 
cost of the replacement parts. Typically, battery 
cells cannot be economically replaced when welds 
prevent the individual removal of the cells. 
Plus, the failure rate of the modules dictates the 
yield when recapturing material and drastically 
effects the economics of the repair. But designing 
batteries for serviceability improves the yield, 
reduces the cost and raw material consumption, 
and allows for a more complete lifecycle.
Everything will eventually meet its end of life, 
including EV batteries’ recapture of critical 
materials. Deferring this day as long as possible 
preserves the materials both in the ground and 
in the battery by allowing the technological 
advancements of recycling to improve, increasing 
the material yield and lowering the costs of the 
recycling process.
Reducing the cost to service batteries while the vehicle and battery are still under the manufacturer’s 
warranty also reduces the cost of EVs. Additionally, providing a low-price battery for aftermarket extends 
the useful life of EVs and makes them more desirable in the older years when resold.
The role of first-life EV battery extension is moving to the forefront to combat current raw material shortages 
and rising commodity prices. Widespread first-life extension reduces the need for new mining and extraction 
as battery demand continues to grow unabated. Moreover, first-life extension of EV batteries is in everyone’s 
best interests as battery recycling systems evolve and mature. After all, climate change waits for no one and 
there is only one planet to live on right now.
The Basics of EV Battery Structure
In general, EV batteries are composed of 
cells. A cluster of cells makes up a module, 
and a cluster of modules make up a pack. 
Ultimately the pack is installed in an EV. 
An EV module has cells welded or otherwise 
physically attached to each other. Multiple 
battery cells are assembled into a module, 
wrapped in steel plates, and have their poles 
welded together to produce the correct 
voltage. Normally, around 12 cells go into a 
conventional battery module for EVs.
Source: Samsung SDI

[Page 21]
20
The Role of Recycling 
The lithium-ion batteries that power EVs can be recycled, but this is not yet a universally established 
practice. But countries that can reclaim valuable minerals and metals from spent batteries can lessen their 
reliance on foreign sources and potentially cut materials costs. The U.S. 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law 
provides an additional $60 million to support the reuse and recycling of used EV batteries. However, the  
U.S. currently has no federal recycling mandate or recycled content requirements for lithium-ion batteries.
California created the Lithium-Ion Car Battery Recycling Advisory in 2018 to draft recommendations with  
the goal of ensuring that virtually all lithium-ion EV batteries in the state are reused or recycled in a safe  
and cost-effective way. The group submitted its final policy recommendations to the state legislature in  
May 2022.13 These recommendations, if adopted, may provide a useful roadmap for the rest of the country 
on how to manage and recycle EV batteries. At the federal level, a bill that would set up a similar task force 
to develop regulatory pathways for battery recycling has so far failed to advance in Congress.
Countries in Europe and East Asia have already set ambitious targets for battery life-cycle sustainability. 
U.S. auto industry players are already partnering with companies abroad that provide technical solutions 
for compliance requirements in Europe and elsewhere abroad. Any U.S. precedent for battery recycling will 
need to align with global standards so American automakers and battery manufacturers avoid penalties 
when exporting vehicles abroad. Representatives from more than 15 countries, including Japan and China, 
are expected to meet in September 2022 to discuss International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
standards for EV battery material, which could end up impacting recycling standards.
Lithium-ion batteries are used in EVs, for energy storage on the electric grid, and in consumer electronics. 
China produced nearly 60% of the world’s EVs last year so it’s not surprising that the country is also the 
global leader in recycling lithium-ion batteries, far outpacing all other nations. 14 As of late 2021, China had 
more than three times as much existing and planned lithium-ion battery recycling capacity as the U.S. 15
13 California Environmental Protection Agency,  Lithium-Ion Car Battery Recycling Final Report, March 16, 2022.
14 CleanTechnica,  “Top 3 Countries in the Global EV Revolution in 2021 – Part 2”, May 6, 2022.
15 ACS Energy Lett.  2022, 7, 2, 712–719, January 19, 2022.

[Page 22]
21
16 IEA (2021),  The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions, IEA, Paris 
17  Ambrose, Hanjiro and Jimmy O’Dea. 2021. Electric Vehicle Batteries: Addressing Questions about Critical Materials and Recycling. Cambridge, MA: Union of Concerned Scientists. 
EV battery recycling capacity has lagged battery production, in part, because it takes years of operating an 
EV before its battery pack needs disposal and EVs are still a relatively new mass-market trend. The amount 
of spent EV batteries reaching the end of their first life is expected to surge after 2030, at a time when 
mineral demand is set to still be growing rapidly. 
Recycling would not completely eliminate the need for continued investment in new supplies. But recycled 
quantities of copper, lithium, nickel and cobalt from spent batteries could reduce combined primary supply 
requirements for these minerals around 10% by 2040, according to some estimates. 16 Other analysts predict 
that under a best-case scenario – which assumes a 95% collection and recovery of the relevant metals, 
as well as a shift toward low-cobalt and no-cobalt chemistries – the U.S. could meet up to 30% to 40% of 
the anticipated material demand for lithium, nickel, manganese, cobalt and graphite in passenger EVs with 
recycled battery materials by 2035.17
Chart: Canary Media  •  Source: Z.J. Baum, et al. (2022) Lithium-Ion Battery Recycling—Overview of Techniques and Trends. ACS Energy Letters
200K
China leads the world in lithium-ion battery recycling
Existing and planned lithium-ion battery recycling capacity in late 2021 in tons per year
 China    South Korea    Japan    Germany    France    United Kingdom    Norway 
 Belgium    Finland    Switzerland    United States    Canada    Australia
150K
100K
50K
Asia Europe North America Oceania
219,650
106,110
60,500
3,000

[Page 23]
22
Note: Material supply and demand is based on the weighted average of U.S. passenger EV sales and cathode 
market shares. The analysis is based on an on-road passenger EV population of roughly 1 million in 2019, 
increasing to 43 million in 2035, and assumes 95% of metals from retired batteries are recovered. 
Direct Lithium Extraction & Enhanced Metals Recovery 
Emerging technologies, such as direct lithium extraction or enhanced metal recovery from waste streams or 
low-grade ores, could augment future supply volumes. 
Direct lithium extraction extracts lithium from underground brine. It could be a game-changing extraction 
method, potentially delivering 10 times the current U.S. lithium demand from California’s Salton Sea known 
geothermal area alone. The Salton Sea sits on the seismically active San Andreas Fault. Lithium-rich 
geothermal brines represent a vast, untapped resource that can potentially be developed into a sustainable, 
robust domestic supply.
Enhanced metals recovery from mining and processing waste (mining residues, slag, sludges and tailings) 
provides a clear opportunity to increase supply. Better treatment of waste streams can also reduce the risk 
of hazardous materials entering the environment. Worldwide governments are increasingly taking notice of 
the opportunities to improve metal recovery from waste streams.
Source: BNEF 2019; 
Dunn, Et Al. 
    Recycled Material 
Production
   U.S. Material Demand
Lithium
1,000
900
400
300
200
100
0
Manganese Cobalt Nickel Graphite
Thousand Metric Tons
Meeting U.S. Passenger EV Battery Demand with  
Recycled Materials, 2035

[Page 24]
Innovative Solutions Will Overcome Supply Chain 
Challenges and Propel Our Electric Future
The pandemic and political instability have wreaked havoc on car companies’ complex global supply chains. 
Going forward, automakers look to exert greater control over their inputs – from the semiconductor  
chips that EVs run on to the metals that go into EV batteries to EV battery composition, manufacturing  
and recycling.
A meaningful portion of demand for EV battery materials could be met by recycling, transitioning to  
low-cobalt cathode formulations, and high levels of material recovery. Widespread battery recycling can 
create a more stable domestic source of materials for battery production, reduce the demand for raw 
materials, and minimize the risks of supply chain disruptions. Recycled EV batteries can also provide the  
U.S. with an added measure of energy independence.
Climate scientists agree that vehicle electrification is one of the best ways to reduce planet-warming 
greenhouse gas emissions. The switch to EVs is also making the U.S. more energy independent from a 
turbulent global oil market. The multiple fuel sources used to generate electricity results in a more secure 
energy source for the electrified the transportation sector. All of this adds to the nation’s energy security, 
cleaner air and water, and a better quality of life for all.
23


[Page 25]
To learn more about our end-to-end EV battery 
services, please visit:
coxautoinc.com/evbattery