Warning
Fraudsters and scammers are using emails, notices, social media and other communication methods to attempt to solicit secure company and personal information from importers to interfere with the IEEPA refund process. Learn more about how to protect you and your company’s information!
U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) launched the Consolidated Administration and Processing of Entries (CAPE) functionality within the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) to streamline the submission and processing of valid refund requests for duties imposed under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), as authorized by court order or applicable law. CAPE is designed to consolidate refunds of IEEPA duties including interest rather than processing refunds on an entry-by-entry basis.
CBP is implementing CAPE through a phased development approach, adding more functionality in subsequent phases for more complicated scenarios.
- Phase 1: certain unliquidated entries and certain entries within 80 days of liquidation
- Phase 2: entries flagged for reconciliation where the reconciliation entry is not yet on file
Requesting refunds of IEEPA duties requires only the following summarized actions:
- Importers of Record and authorized Customs brokers have an established ACE Secure Data Portal account (ACE Portal account)
- Recipients use the ACE Portal account to provide CBP with bank account information
- Importers of Record and authorized Customs brokers submit CAPE Declarations in the ACE Portal (See below for details)
Importers of Record (IORs) and Customs brokers are able to file a CAPE Declaration, using a Comma-Separated Values (.CSV) file, through their web-based ACE Secure Data Portal (ACE Portal) account. Filers do not use the Automated Broker Interface (ABI) to file a CAPE Declaration.
The CAPE Declaration consists of the list of entries for which refunds of IEEPA duties are being requested. CBP does not require any other information in the .CSV file. Each individual CAPE Declaration has a limit of 9,999 entries. IORs and brokers can file multiple CAPE Declarations. The CAPE Declaration template file is available through the “Upload” button in the CAPE tab.
Only the IOR for the listed entries or the authorized customs broker that filed the entries on behalf of the IOR may file the CAPE Declaration.
Once a CAPE Declaration is validated and accepted, ACE updates the appropriate entry summary lines by removing the IEEPA Harmonized Tariff Schedule Chapter 99 provision and the corresponding IEEPA duties, resulting in an updated version of the entry. Following CBP review, entries are liquidated or reliquidated and refunds are be consolidated by IOR, or by the party the IOR has designated to receive refunds on its behalf via CBP Form 4811 (“Form 4811 notify party”), and liquidation date.
Importers and authorized brokers should anticipate that valid IEEPA refunds are generally issued within 60 - 90 days following acceptance of the CAPE Declaration, unless a compliance concern requires further CBP review. However, certain scenarios, such as entries that are extended, suspended or under review, and warehouse entries, maintain their liquidation status with validated refunds issued at liquidation.
Please note that all CAPE-processed IEEPA duty refunds are subject to all applicable laws and regulations concerning the liquidation/reliquidation of entries, including the netting of all over- and under-payments for the entire entry, as determined at liquidation or reliquidation, see 19 C.F.R. § 159.1, as well as the potential diversion of refunds as necessary and appropriate to offset the importer’s legally fixed and undisputed unpaid debts to the United States, if any, see 19 C.F.R. § 24.72.
IEEPA Search
Getting Started
Updated 6/16/2026
CBP has developed new webforms and related automation for applying for and managing ACE Portal accounts:
- Importer Account Application (single Importer of Record number only)
- ACE Portal Account Application Web Form (including new Importer accounts with multiple Importer of Record numbers)
- The ACE Portal Account Application Web Form should also be used for these common account management scenarios (for accounts other than Exporter and Protest Filer): 
  - Add sub-accounts to an existing top account
  - Add sub-account identifiers to an existing top account
  - Update TAO information
Updated 6/16/2026
New CBP automation will now automatically reactivate a TAO account when the reactivation request is sent from an email address associated with a TAO account in ACE. TAOs with inactive accounts should email ACE.Support@cbp.dhs.gov and include “reactivation” in the subject line. The sender will automatically be sent confirmation or follow up instructions.
REMINDER: Non-TAO users can only be reactivated by their company’s TAO. For more information, review CSMS # 68510928 – REMINDER: ACE Portal Account Owners Can Reactivate Account Users.
Updated 6/16/2026
For assistance locating an account’s TAO, send an email to ACE.Support@cbp.dhs.gov and include “Trade Account Owner Lookup” in the subject line. New CBP automation will notify the current TAO of the lookup request and send a confirmation email back to the requestor.
Updated 5/20/2026
No. CBP does not charge any fees for processing tariff refunds. If you are asked to pay a fee or provide financial information by a party claiming to be CBP, it is a scam and you should report it to the Traderelations@cbp.dhs.gov mailbox.
Updated 5/20/2026
No, a CAPE Declaration may be filed whether or not the filer has outstanding bills from CBP that include IEEPA duties owed. CBP has paused collection and enforcement actions at this time, such as national sanction and demand on surety, for any bill(s) that include unpaid IEEPA duties. If the bill(s) also include(s) unpaid amounts other than IEEPA duties (and interest on IEEPA duties), these non-IEEPA related amounts remain due; to make payment of the non-IEEPA related amounts due, please refer to your bill for payment instructions.
Updated 4/10/2026
IORs and brokers should ensure they have an ACE Portal account and that their bank account information for refunds has been added to their account. To provide your refund bank account information, you will need to have the “Importer” sub-account in the ACE Portal. IORs and customs brokers can also begin compiling lists of entries on which IEEPA duties were paid.
Updated 5/20/2026
Specifically with respect to Phase 1, which is limited to unliquidated entries or entries within the 90-day voluntary reliquidation period, you do not need to file a case with the CIT to receive an IEEPA refund due to you. CBP offers no legal guidance on whether a case needs to be filed with the CIT for any other entries.
Filing a CAPE Declaration
Updated 6/9/2026
In order to preserve the beginning zero (0) on an entry summary number, insert an apostrophe (‘) directly before the zero (Example: ‘000-XXXXXX-XX or ‘000XXXXXXXX) when you complete your CSV file. You can then include these entries on your CAPE Declaration.
Updated 9/2/2026
There are several measures built into CAPE to ensure that refunds are not issued erroneously to parties who are not entitled to them.
To file a CAPE Declaration—
- You must have a verified account in ACE.
- You must be the IOR or the authorized customs broker to file a CAPE Declaration. IORs and customs brokers seeking refunds must be directly, alpha-numerically associated with the entries they would like included in their Declarations through the 3-digit prefix of their ACE filer code.
- The entries you are including on your CAPE Declaration must be in ACE and must have an accepted status in CBP’s control.
To receive a refund—
- You must have your U.S. bank account information in your ACE Portal account (Electronic Refund Enrollment in CBPs ACE Portal). With rare exceptions, all refunds will be made through a secure ACH payment to a verified party, not through a paper check disbursed through the mail to a non-verified address.
For more information see:
Updated 5/20/2026
Once your CAPE Declaration is validated, you will receive an accepted status message (File Upload Status column and “accepted” under that column header) along with a claim number. You will also see a date and time in the Submitted Date/Time column.
Updated 5/20/2026
You are encouraged to place entry summaries that are eligible for drawback on your CAPE Declaration and submit them prior to filing a drawback claim. Your entry must be in liquidation/reliquidation status (it does not have to be in your ACH account) before it is included on a drawback claim for the imports covered by your CAPE Declaration.
Updated 5/20/2026
Once you have filed a CAPE Declaration, you cannot remove entries from the Declaration or cancel the Declaration. If you have issues that need to be corrected following liquidation of the entries included on a CAPE Declaration, you can file a Protest or Prior Disclosure, in accordance with CBP regulations.
Updated 4/10/2026
Only the IOR or the licensed customs broker who filed the entries can file a CAPE Declaration.
Updated 4/10/2026
No. A broker can include up to 9,999 entries that they filed on behalf of various IORs on a single CAPE Declaration.
Updated 4/10/2026
No, once a CAPE Declaration has been filed and accepted, it cannot be amended.
Updated 4/10/2026
You will need to file a new CAPE Declaration with those entries not previously submitted on a CAPE Declaration. Each entry may only be submitted on one accepted CAPE Declaration. Entries on a CAPE Declaration will receive a rejection error if they were included on a previous Declaration.
Updated 4/10/2026
Yes. Entry summaries with the liquidation status of suspended, extended, or under review may be included in your CAPE Declaration. Entry summaries that are suspended, extended, or under review will maintain their liquidation status until resolved and the refund, if validated, will be issued at liquidation.
Updated 9/2/2026
ACE accepts CAPE Declarations containing entries liquidated within the preceding 80 days. This allows sufficient time for CBP to process and reliquidate entries by the 90th day to meet the agency’s legal timeframe for voluntary reliquidation pursuant to 19 U.S.C. § 1501.
Updated 7/7/2026
The error messages you may receive when you file your CAPE Declaration are in the File Validation Errors table and Entry Validation Errors table below.
File Validation Errors
| Error message | Definition | 
|---|---|
| CSV content is empty or missing the header | CSV needs Entry Number header and at least 1 entry number | 
| Not a CSV file | File format must be CSV | 
| The file size exceeds 1mb. Please split the data into smaller files before reuploading | File size cannot be more than 1mb | 
| The file is deemed unsafe. Please correct the file data before reuploading | Resave file and upload again | 
| The file exceeds the maximum 10,000 allowed entry numbers per file | If you have more than 10,000 entry numbers, submit multiple CSV files uploads | 
| Filer Code not matching | For Filer and Organizational Broker, first 3 characters of Entry Number must match Filer Code of account | 
| Duplicate Entry | CSV file has duplicate Entry Numbers | 
| Not 11 characters long | Entry Number must be 11 characters without dashes | 
| Account Mismatch | Importer of Record Number must match Importer of Record Number of Entry Summary | 
| Entry Summary Not Found or Archived in ACE | Entry Summary must exist in ACE | 
Entry Validation Errors
| Error message | Definition | 
|---|---|
| Entry on Drawback | Entry cannot be on a drawback entry | 
| Recon Already Filed for Entry Summary | Entry has Reconciliation entry on file and is currently not allowed for CAPE processing | 
| Entry Summary is Cancelled/Rejected | Entry summary status must be “Accepted” | 
| Entry Summary is in Final Liquidation Status | Entry summary liquidated/reliquidated more than 80 days ago | 
| Entry Summary is in Trade Control | Control status for the entry summary must be with CBP | 
| Entry Summary is Subject to Court Injunction | Entry summary cannot be flagged for injunction | 
| Entry Summary Not Found or Archived in Ace | Entry must exist | 
| Entry Summary Pending Liquidation or Not Liquidated and Has Suspension Record | Entry summary has a liquidation status of “Pending” or “Not Liquidated” and has a Suspension record | 
| Entry Summary Under Review | Entry cannot be in adjusted status | 
| Entry Type Not Allowed | Entry type cannot be TIB (23), Duty Deferral (08), Reconciliation (09), or Drawback (047) | 
| Value Not Allowed on HTS | A goods value amount greater than $0.00 on any chapter 99 HTS code is not permitted | 
| No IEEPA HTS on Entry | Entry must have at least one IEEPA HTS | 
| Protest on Entry | Entry cannot be on an Open or Suspended protest. Entry cannot be in Denied status if AFR box is checked | 
| Statement Processing Not Complete | Entry cannot be on a statement that is authorized for payment, but the payment has not yet processed | 
| Invalid HTS | The line action date is not within the begin date and the end date of at least one HTS code on the entry | 
| HTS Relationship Mismatch | An HTS code designated as an add/replace/derived HTS code exists on the entry, but the corresponding HTS code has not been provided | 
| Unable to Calculate Duty-'X' Duty Comp Code | There is a duty comp code that is not able to be calculated | 
| Unexpected Error-try Again | Re upload file to try again | 
| SPI or Additional HTS Required | Either a Special Program Indicator (SPI) code or an additional HTS code is required on at least one line of the entry summary | 
Updated 4/15/2026
The CAPE Declaration consists of the list of entries for which refunds of IEEPA duties are being requested. CBP does not require any other information in the .CSV file.
Updated 4/15/2026
No. Only the IOR or the licensed customs broker who filed the entries can file a CAPE Declaration.
Updated 4/15/2026
There are no new recordkeeping requirements for the CAPE Declaration. You should continue to follow all applicable recordkeeping requirements.
Updated 4/15/2026
Yes, you can file all eligible entry summaries on one CAPE declaration, whether or not they have liquidated and whether or not they share the same upcoming liquidation date. During Phase 1, ACE will accept CAPE Declarations containing entries liquidated within the preceding 80 days.
Updated 9/2/2026
ACE Portal users with Importer sub-account access can monitor refund activity using ACE Reports. The ES-022 CAPE Entry Summary report links accepted CAPE declarations, entries, and refund numbers to help track the refund process at the entry summary level and displays refund amounts separated by principal and interest. The REV-603 Trade Refund report covers successful refunds. The REV-613 ACH Rejected Refunds report highlights any refunds that have been rejected due to the recipient not being enrolled in ACH Refunds. For help with refund reports, review the ACE Refund Report training guide and CBP Offers Multiple ACE Reports for Monitoring CAPE Refund Claims. For more information about rejected refunds, see Replacement Refund Instructions.
Processing the CAPE Declaration
Updated 9/2/2026
CBP encourages importers who do not have an ACE Portal account, who are instead employing a customs broker to file their CAPE Declarations, to coordinate with their brokers to track their refund status. For ACE Portal users with Importer sub-account access, you can monitor aggregated refund activity using ACE Reports. For help with refund reports, review the ACE Refund Report training guide and CBP Offers Multiple ACE Reports for Monitoring CAPE Refund Claims.
- ES-003 Entry Summary Line Tariff Details report helps users identify entries that may be eligible for CAPE refunds. By including the IEEPA tariff indicator, the report displays all entry lines with assessed duties.
- ES-022 CAPE Entry Summary report links accepted CAPE declarations, entries, and refund numbers to help track the refund process at the entry summary level. It displays refund amounts separated by principal and interest.
- REV-603 Trade Refund report provides information on both pending and successful refunds
- REV-613 ACH Rejected Refunds report highlights any refunds that have been rejected due to the recipient not being enrolled in ACE Refunds
- REV-615 Trade CAPE Detail Refund report provides information on CAPE-specific refunds (available once refunds are issued)
Updated 5/20/2026
No.
If you need to file a PSC for an issue that is not related to IEEPA duties, you should file that PSC prior to filing your CAPE Declaration. Once the entry has been corrected, you may include this entry on a CAPE Declaration.
If you need to file a Protest regarding non-IEEPA issues on an entry(ies), you should wait until your entries have been liquidated/reliquidated for the applicable entries from your CAPE Declaration. Once the refunds have been issued, you can file a Protest for the non-IEEPA issues you wish to pursue.
Updated 4/10/2026
When you file a CAPE Declaration by uploading your .CSV file in the ACE Portal, the file itself, as well as the entry summaries listed, will be validated and you will receive a CAPE claim number. This indicates that the CAPE Declaration is accepted and will continue processing for the accepted entries.
Updated 4/10/2026
Once a CAPE Declaration is filed, the Declaration, as well as the entry summaries listed, will be validated before a CAPE Declaration is accepted into the ACE Portal and assigned a CAPE claim number. Any entry summaries that are not accepted will be removed from the Declaration, with all valid entry summaries remaining to continue through the process. The filer can view which entry summaries were accepted or rejected, and the reason for rejection.
Updated 4/17/2026
Diversion occurs after liquidation of the entry summary but before the refund is issued. The Trade can run the REV-603, Trade Refund Report, or, effective 4/20/26, the REV-615, Trade CAPE Detail Refund Report. Both reports have a column labeled Refund Secondary Status that will show as “Funds Diverted” once the funds are actually diverted.
Updated 4/17/2026
If multiple actions are taken on an entry summary, e.g., an increase in value on line 001 with a corresponding increase in duty and a classification change on line 002 resulting in a decrease in duty, CBP nets the changes in the liquidation of the entry summary for a single revenue change.
An importer or broker with an ACE Account may access the ES-701 Courtesy Notice of Liquidation Report or the ES-702 Official Notice of Extension, Suspension and Liquidation Report to identify the liquidated amount on the entry summary. For change liquidations, the ES-701 and ES-702 include the amount of the bill or refund, along with the corresponding amount of interest.
Effective 4/20/26, Importers or Brokers with ACE Accounts will also be able to access the new REV-615 Trade CAPE Detail Refund Report. This report will provide consolidated CAPE refund information as well as entry-level refund information.
Issuance of Refunds
Updated 6/9/2026
There are multiple reasons why a refund amount may be different than what you have calculated outside of the CAPE process.
CAPE-processed refunds are batched by liquidation date and Importer of Record (IOR). If not all your entries included in your CAPE Declaration liquidate on the same day, then they will not be included on the same refund. The amount you are expecting may not be what is deposited on a certain day or in a certain group of transactions.
The total refund that is deposited in your bank account for a specific entry includes the duties being refunded for that entry, plus applicable interest, which may be netted with additional duties that may be owed for the entry as determined upon liquidation or reliquidation (for example, as a result of a change in classification or value). You will not receive a separate interest refund. (Please refer to the FAQ on interest calculation elsewhere on this page.)
CBP encourages ACE users to run their ES-022 report (CAPE Entry Summary Report) in the Portal account. This report can be used to track the progress and the details of your IEEPA refunds. The ES-022:
- Links your CAPE declaration number to the underlying entry numbers and refund numbers.
- Displays the approved refund amounts and separates the principal refund amount from the interest amount.
- Serves as a “dashboard” to see if your entries have been processed and approved for a refund.
Some filers did not file their entry summaries correctly during the time that the IEEPA tariffs were in effect. This means that once duties have been recalculated through the CAPE process, using the Duty Calculation/Validation functionality in ACE (deployed February 2026), the amounts may differ from what was originally calculated at the time the entry summary was filed. There are several situations where this may happen.
- The Framework Agreements with certain countries (European Union, Japan, South Korea, Switzerland/Liechtenstein) required that the Column 1/General Duty be paid, along with IEEPA duties, such that the combined duty rate equaled 15%. The total 15% could be reported on a single line, with a single duty amount, on the entry summary filing. You will not receive a refund of the total 15% because a portion of that 15% accounts for the Column 1/General Duty rate which remains in effect.
Example: The Column 1/General Duty rate was 5%. The IEEPA duty thus needed to be 10%, to bring the total duties to 15%. Under CAPE processing, the IEEPA duty refund owed is 10%. The 5% Column 1/General Duty is still applicable and is not part of the IEEPA refund.
- IEEPA duties were paid, but other duties were not or those other duties were underpaid. The General Duty rate, plus other duties, such as Section 232, 301, and/or 201, were and are still applicable. Under CAPE processing, the net amount after the proper calculations is what constitutes the IEEPA Refund or duties owed (Please refer to the FAQ on CBP bills elsewhere on this page.)
If, after reviewing the scenarios above, you still believe your refund amount contains an error, you may file a Protest to dispute CBP’s refund decision upon liquidation or reliquidation.
Updated 6/9/2026
No. ACE users can set their accounts to schedule reports as they deem convenient. To learn how to run and schedule reports, please refer to the Quick Reference Guide for running the Trade Refund Report.
Updated 5/20/2026
CBP is only able to refund IEEPA duties to the Importer of Record or the Notify Party (designated on CBP Form 4811) who have their U.S. bank account information in their ACE Portal account.
Updated 5/20/2026
Yes, interest will be included in your IEEPA duty refund. The payment of interest is governed by 19 U.S.C. § 1505, which requires that CBP refund interest on overpayments as determined upon liquidation or reliquidation. The calculation of interest generally starts from the date of deposit or estimated duty payment to the date of liquidation or reliquidation of the applicable entry. The rate of interest is determined by the IRS and published quarterly in the Federal Register (view the latest rates here).
Updated 5/20/2026
The ACE Rev-613 report will show any refund that has been rejected because there is not an ACH enrollment on file with CBP. The ACE Rev-603 report shows an importer when a refund has been returned from the commercial bank due to an ACH account issue.
Updated 5/20/2026
Most refunds will appear in the designated ACH account 3 to 5 weeks from the date of liquidation or reliquidation. Once CBP processing is complete, the entry will show a status of “Sent to Treasury” on the ACE Rev-603 report. Once the refund has been issued, the entry will show a status of “Treasury issued” on the ACE Rev-603 report.
Updated 9/2/2026
Yes. Liquidation constitutes the final assessment of duties on an entry for all purposes, and a voluntary reliquidation within the 90-day period may correct any error in the original liquidation. CAPE processing removes all IEEPA tariffs from an entry. Nonetheless, entries are still subject to any duties, taxes, and fees, including pursuant to other trade remedy provisions, that are applicable upon liquidation or reliquidation within the 90-day period. It is possible to receive a bill after CAPE processing if the amount paid on the entry as a whole is less than the recalculated duty owed at liquidation or reliquidation. As with all refunds issued by CBP, CBP will check for any unpaid debts owed to CBP by the IOR before issuing the refund, and the refund (or bill) amount will be equal to the difference between the IEEPA duties to be refunded and the amount owed on an entry-by-entry basis.
Updated 5/20/2026
No. CBP will not email CAPE updates. You should use ACE Reports to keep track of your refund or request this information from your customs broker if your broker filed your CAPE Declaration on your behalf.
Updated 9/2/2026
All refunds are required to be paid electronically via Automated Clearing House (ACH) (Federal Register Document 2025-24171). To receive a refund, CBP must have your bank information on file. This bank account information is specific for refunds and may be separate from any ACH information used to make payments to CBP. If bank information designated for refunds is not on file with CBP, the refund will not be paid until that information is provided through the ACE Secure Data Portal (ACE Portal). See more information at ACH Refund Enrollment Overview.
Updated 4/10/2026
The IOR or the party designated by the IOR (the 4811 notify party) on either the CBP Form 4811 (Special Address Notification) or on the ACE Portal account, and on the entry summary will be eligible to receive refunds.
Updated 4/10/2026
No. To get a refund, bank account information must be provided using an ACE Portal account. In addition, the importer or broker who files the CAPE Declaration must have an ACE Portal account.
Updated 4/10/2026
If you have not updated your ACE Portal account with your current ACH information, you will not receive a refund. CBP will hold the refund until the ACH account information is available.
Updated 5/20/2026
Importers and authorized brokers should anticipate that valid IEEPA refunds will generally be issued within 60 - 90 days following acceptance of the CAPE Declaration, unless a compliance concern requires further CBP review. Certain scenarios, such as entries that are extended, suspended or under review, and warehouse entries, will maintain their liquidation status with validated refunds issued at liquidation. This includes 45 days for CBP processing as well as time for the Department of the Treasury to certify the monies.
Updated 4/15/2026
If you file a CAPE declaration and are owed a refund, but you also have an outstanding debt with CBP, CBP will, consistent with established practice, apply the refund owed to that outstanding debt per 19 CFR § 24.72. If any balance of the refund remains, it will be issued to the appropriate party.
Subsequent Deployments of CAPE
Updated 9/2/2026
CBP is evaluating functionality for the following types of entries in subsequent deployments of CAPE, in accordance with appropriate statutory authority or court order. Further communications will be issued as additional capabilities are developed. For more information, please see the CAPE Trade Information Notice.
- Entries with type Entry Type 09 - Reconciliation Summary
- Entries flagged for reconciliation with Entry Type 09 already on file, (see CSMS # 69035485 for details)
- Entries designated on a drawback claim
- Warehouse entries (entry type 21 and 22) (see CSMS # 69127837 for details)
- Entries covered by an open protest
- Entries not filed in ACE, and entries without a liquidation status in ACE
- Entries subject to Antidumping/Countervailing Duties (AD/CVD), for which the Department of Commerce (DOC) has issued liquidation instructions, that are pending liquidation in accordance with 19 U.S.C. § 1504(d)
- Entries for which liquidation is final.
Reconciliation
Updated 6/24/2026
Entries Flagged for Reconciliation with No Reconciliation on File
All filing and processing requirements from the first phase of CAPE remain in effect. For detailed information, please see CSMS # 68340863 - UPDATE - Consolidated Administration and Processing of Entries (CAPE) for IEEPA Refunds, April 20, 2026, Deployment. Effective June 29, 2026, CAPE will accept entries flagged for reconciliation (entry types 01, 02, 06) for which the reconciliation entry (entry type 09) has not been filed. Consistent with CAPE Phase 1, the entries flagged for reconciliation will be limited to unliquidated entries and entries within 80 days of liquidation.
Once the entries flagged for reconciliation are accepted on a CAPE declaration, the trade may file the reconciliation entry. The CAPE process removes the IEEPA duties from the flagged entries prior to the filing of the reconciliation entry, separating the IEEPA duty refund from the calculations on the reconciliation entry. Once the reconciliation entry is filed, CBP will assume that all the CAPE declarations associated with the reconciled entries were filed and accepted. Once a reconciliation entry is filed, the underlying entries will not be eligible to be filed on a CAPE Declaration in this phase, pursuant to the June 29, 2026, deployment.
Entries Flagged for Reconciliation with Reconciliation on File
Entries flagged for reconciliation with the reconciliation entry already on file are not included in the June 29, 2026CAPE deployment. The CAPE process does not prevent an entry from being reconciled. If the reconciliation filing deadline is close to expiring (e.g., less than 30 days), the trade will need to prioritize the filing of the reconciliation. Entries flagged for reconciliation with a reconciliation entry already on file will be included in a future phase of CAPE development.
Updated 5/26/2026
Trade should file the reconciliation entry and deposit the duties, taxes and fees owed, without the increased IEEPA duties.
            Additional Resources
      
    For additional information about ACE Portal access and ACH refunds visit the resources below:
- One Page Overview: ACH Refund Enrollment
- Frequently Asked Questions: ACE Portal and ACH Refunds FAQs
- Training Video: Applying for an ACE Portal Importer Account and Enrolling in ACH Refunds - Video
- Training Guide: ACE Portal Importer Account Application
- Training Guide: ACH Refund Enrollment in the ACE Portal
- Rejected ACH Refund Information: Replacement Refund Instructions
Have additional questions?
- For technical questions about IEEPA refunds, email: IEEPARefunds@cbp.dhs.gov
- For general inquiries about IEEPA refunds, email: traderelations@cbp.dhs.gov