A cross-functional NAFTZ group that monitors trade and tariff developments, assesses their impact on the FTZ program, and organizes a rapid, informed response for members.
Monitor
Track Customs, tariff policy, and regulatory changes.
Assess
Evaluate risks and effects on the FTZ program.
Consult
Bring in external insights when needed.
Enable
Provide a rapid, organized response to developments.
Solve
Explore strategies to mitigate tariff impacts.
TRRT Updates
Back to Blog Earlier today, Liz Whiteman, Executive Secretary, U.S. Foreign-Traded Zones Board, sent a message to grantees and others in the U.S. FTZ community advising that tomorrow, Friday, August 21, will be her final day with the U.S. Foreign-Trade Zones Board staff. The announcement was unexpected. Liz’s message did not identify a future point…
Read More →
Back to Blog Please Note: When evaluating tariff announcements, carefully review each Executive Order, the corresponding Federal Register Notices, and CSMS messages in detail. Consult with your trade attorney or advisor to understand how these measures specifically impact your U.S. FTZ operations. The 10% tariffs imposed under Section 122 of the Trade Act of 1974…
Read More →
Back to Blog Please Note: When evaluating tariff announcements, carefully review each Executive Order, the corresponding Federal Register Notices, and CSMS messages in detail. Consult with your trade attorney or advisor to understand how these measures specifically impact your U.S. FTZ operations. Several fast-moving trade and customs developments are currently affecting, or could soon affect,…
Read More →
Back to Blog CBP’s Consolidated Administration and Processing of Entries (CAPE) system became operational April 20, 2026. CAPE is CBP’s new ACE Portal process for submitting certain declarations related to IEEPA duty refunds. NAFTZ has received a limited number of reports of technical issues following the launch of CAPE, but we are not currently seeing…
Read More →
Back to Blog NAFTZ has received helpful clarification from CBP regarding CAPE and FTZ Type 06 entries as a result of a recent NAFTZ meeting with CBP in Washington, DC. As a follow-up to our earlier update, CBP indicated that Type 06 entries are expected to be accommodated in the CAPE system and did not…
Read More →