[Page 1]
1 
Billing Code 3390-F4 
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE 
Notice of Modification: China’s Acts, Policies and Practices Related to Technology 
Transfer, Intellectual Property and Innovation 
AGENCY: Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR). 
ACTION: Notice of modification of actions 
SUMMARY: In connection with the Four-Year Review of actions taken in the Section 301 
investigation of China’s acts, policies, and practices related to technology transfer, 
intellectual property, and innovation, and in accordance with the specific direction of the 
President, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to: modify the actions being taken in 
the investigation by imposing additional Section 301 duties or increasing the rate of existing 
Section 301 duties, on certain products of China in strategic sectors; propose increasing tariff 
rates for certain tungsten products, wafers, and polysilicon, with a public comment process to 
be set out via separate notice; provide a list of subheadings eligible for consideration of 
temporary exclusion under an exclusion process for certain machinery used in domestic 
manufacturing; and modify the actions to temporarily exclude from Section 301 duties 
certain solar manufacturing equipment.  
DATES: Tariff increases in 2024 are applicable with respect to products that are entered for 
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after September 27, 
2024. Tariff increases in 2025 and 2026 are applicable with respect to products that are 
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after January 
1 of the corresponding year. Exclusions for solar equipment included in Annex B are 
retroactive and applicable with respect to products that are entered for consumption, or 

[Page 2]
2 
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after January 1, 2024, and through May 
31, 2025. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general questions about this notice, 
contact Philip Butler and Megan Grimball, Chairs of the Section 301 Committee at 
202.395.5725. For specific questions on customs classification or implementation of the 
product exclusions, contact traderemedy@cbp.dhs.gov. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 
A. Background 
On August 24, 2017, the U.S. Trade Representative initiated an investigation into 
certain acts, policies, and practices of the Government of China related to technology 
transfer, intellectual property, and innovation under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as 
amended (Trade Act) (19 U.S.C. 2411). See 82 FR 40213. In a notice published on April 6, 
2018, the U.S. Trade Representative determined that acts, policies, and practices of the 
Government of China related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation 
were unreasonable or discriminatory, and burdened or restricted U.S. commerce, and thus 
were actionable under Section 301(b) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(b)). See 83 FR 
14906. 
Following a notice and comment process on the proposed action to be taken in the 
investigation, the U.S. Trade Representative took two actions under Section 301 of the Trade 
Act: the July 6, 2018, action, covering an approximate annual trade value of $34 billion (List 
1), and the August 23, 2018, action, covering an approximate annual trade value of $16 
billion (List 2). See 83 FR 28710 (July 6, 2018, action) and 83 FR 40823 (August 23, 2018, 
action). These actions subsequently were modified by imposing additional duties on 

[Page 3]
3 
supplemental lists of products, known as Lists 3 and 4, as well as by the temporary removal 
of duties on certain products through product exclusions. 
On May 5, 2022, USTR announced that under Section 307(c)(2) of the Trade Act (19 
U.S.C. 2417(c)(2)), the July 6, 2018, and August 23, 2018, actions, as modified, were subject 
to possible termination on their respective four-year anniversary dates (i.e., July 6, 2022, and 
August 23, 2022) and of the opportunity for representatives of domestic industries that 
benefit from the trade actions to request continuation of the actions during the last 60 days of 
such four-year periods. See 87 FR 26797. 
On September 8, 2022, USTR announced that the July 6, 2018 and the August 23, 
2018 actions, as modified, would remain in effect because at least one representative of a 
domestic industry that benefits from each action submitted to the U.S. Trade Representative a 
request for continuation of the actions. See 87 FR 55073. The notice also announced that in 
accordance with Section 307(c)(3) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2417(c)(3)), the U.S. Trade 
Representative would conduct a review of the July 6, 2018 and the August 23, 2018 actions, 
as modified. See 87 FR 55073. 
To aid in this review, on November 15, 2022, USTR opened a docket for interested 
persons to submit comments with respect to a number of considerations concerning the 
review. See 87 FR 62914. USTR received approximately 1,500 comments. 
Based on information obtained during the review, including the public comments, 
USTR, in consultation with the Section 301 Committee, prepared a comprehensive report 
that included findings on the effectiveness of the July 6, 2018 and the August 23, 2018 
actions, as modified, in achieving the objectives of the investigation, other actions that could 

[Page 4]
4 
be taken, and the effects of such actions on the United States economy, including consumers. 
The report, Four-Year Review of Actions Taken in the Section 301 Investigation: China’s 
Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and 
Innovation (Report), was published on May 14, 2024, and is available on the USTR website. 
As detailed in the Report, the U.S. Trade Representative found that: 
 The Section 301 actions have been effective in encouraging China to take steps toward 
eliminating some of its technology transfer-related acts, policies, and practices, and have 
reduced some of the exposure of U.S. persons and businesses to these technology 
transfer-related acts, policies, and practices. 
 China has not eliminated many of its technology transfer-related acts, policies, and 
practices, which continue to impose a burden or restriction on U.S. commerce. Instead of 
pursuing fundamental reform, China has persisted, and even become more aggressive, 
particularly through cyber intrusions and cybertheft, in its attempts to acquire and absorb 
foreign technology, which further burden or restrict U.S. commerce. 
 Economic analyses generally find that the duties have had small negative effects on U.S. 
aggregate economic welfare, positive impacts on U.S. production in the ten sectors most 
directly affected by the duties, and minimal impacts on economy-wide prices and 
employment. 
 Economic analyses, including the principal U.S. Government analysis published by the 
U.S. International Trade Commission, generally find that the Section 301 tariffs have 
contributed to reducing U.S. imports of goods from China and increasing imports from 
alternate sources, including U.S. allies and partners, thereby potentially supporting U.S. 
supply chain diversification and resilience. 

[Page 5]
5 
Based on the Report findings, the U.S. Trade Representative recommended to the 
President to maintain the Section 301 tariffs on the covered products. To further encourage 
China to eliminate the investigated acts, policies, and practices, the U.S. Trade 
Representative also recommended enhancing the effectiveness of the tariff actions by adding 
or increasing Section 301 tariffs on certain products in strategic sectors, including sectors 
targeted by China for dominance, or sectors where the United States recently made 
significant domestic investments. The U.S. Trade Representative found that “increasing or 
adding Section 301 tariffs on products targeted by China for dominance will help encourage 
the elimination of investigated technology transfer-related acts, policies, and practices by 
encouraging alternative sourcing in strategic sectors of the economy, reducing U.S. reliance 
on China, while also reducing exposure to China’s technology transfer-related acts, policies, 
and practices, and helping to maintain resilient, diverse, and secure supply chains.” 
On May 14, 2024, taking into consideration the U.S. Trade Representative’s findings 
in the Report and recommendations, the President issued a Memorandum (President’s 
Memorandum) that directed the U.S. Trade Representative to: “maintain, as appropriate and 
consistent with this memorandum, the ad valorem rates of duty and lists of products subject 
to the [actions] taken under the Section 301 investigation” and “[t]o further encourage China 
to eliminate the acts, policies, and practices at issue, and to counteract the burden or 
restriction of these acts, policies, and practices, the Trade Representative shall modify the 
[actions taken in the investigation] to increase Section 301 ad valorem rates of duty” for 
certain specified products of China. See https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-
room/presidential-actions/2024/05/14/memorandum-on-actions-by-the-united-states-related-
to-the-statutory-4-year-review-of-the-section-301-investigation-of-chinas-acts-policies-and-

[Page 6]
6 
practices-related-to-technology-transfer-intellectua/. In particular, the President’s 
Memorandum specified categories of products for proposed tariff increases, tariff rates for 
those products, and year for tariff increases. With respect to tariff increases, the President 
directed increases on the following products: 
• Battery parts (non-lithium-ion batteries) – Increase rate to 25% in 2024 
• Electric vehicles – Increase rate to 100% in 2024 
• Facemasks – Increase rate to no less than 25% in 2024 
• Lithium-ion electrical vehicle batteries – Increase rate to 25% in 2024 
• Lithium-ion non-electrical vehicle batteries – Increase rate to 25% in 2026 
• Medical gloves – Increase rate to no less than 25% in 2026 
• Natural graphite – Increase rate to 25% in 2026 
• Other critical minerals – Increase rate to 25% in 2024 
• Permanent magnets – Increase rate to 25% in 2026 
• Semiconductors – Increase rate to 50% in 2025 
• Ship-to-shore cranes – Increase rate to 25% in 2024 
• Solar cells (whether or not assembled into modules) – Increase rate to 50% in 2024 
• Steel and aluminum products – Increase rate to 25% in 2024 
• Syringes and needles – Increase rate to no less than 50% in 2024 
The President also directed the U.S. Trade Representative to establish a process by 
which interested persons may request that particular machinery used in domestic 
manufacturing classified within a subheading under Chapters 84 and 85 of the Harmonized 
Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) be temporarily excluded from Section 301 

[Page 7]
7 
tariffs, and directed the U.S. Trade Representative to prioritize, in particular, exclusions for 
certain solar manufacturing equipment.  
Additionally, the White House released a statement further explaining how China’s 
acts, policies, and practices have contributed to China’s significant control of global 
production for the critical inputs necessary for U.S. technologies, infrastructure, energy, and 
healthcare and China’s growing overcapacity and export surges, and how such control 
threatens U.S. supply chains and economic security. See 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/14/fact-sheet-
president-biden-takes-action-to-protect-american-workers-and-businesses-from-chinas-
unfair-trade-practices/. 
B. Proposed Modification to the Actions  
Consistent with the President’s direction, USTR issued a Federal Register notice with 
proposed modifications. See 89 FR 46252 (May 28, 2024) (May 28 notice). In the May 28 
notice, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed increasing Section 301 duties on 382 HTSUS 
subheadings and 5 statistical reporting numbers of the HTSUS, with an approximate annual 
trade value of $18 billion (2023). Additionally, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed 
subheadings eligible for consideration for temporary exclusion under a process by which 
interested persons may request that particular machinery used in domestic manufacturing and 
classified within certain subheadings under Chapters 84 and 85 of HTSUS be temporarily 
excluded. Finally, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed 19 temporary exclusions for solar 
manufacturing equipment. In accordance with Section 307(a)(2) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 
2417(a)(2)), USTR invited comments from interested persons with respect to the proposed 

[Page 8]
8 
modifications, the scope of the machinery exclusion process, and the temporary exclusions 
for solar manufacturing equipment. USTR opened a 30-day docket on May 29, 2024.  
With respect to the proposed tariff increases, USTR requested commenters to address 
the effectiveness of the proposed modification, the effects of the proposed modification on 
the U.S. economy, including consumers, and whether the tariff subheadings or statistical 
reporting numbers identified for each product or sector adequately cover the products and 
sectors included in the President’s direction to the U.S. Trade Representative. In addition, for 
facemasks, needles and syringes, and medical gloves, consistent with the President’s 
direction to increase tariffs no less than specified rates, USTR requested comment on 
whether the rates of additional duty should be higher than the proposed rates, and with 
respect to facemasks, whether additional statistical reporting numbers under HTSUS 
subheading 6307.90.98 should be included.  
With respect to the machinery exclusion process, USTR requested comments on 
whether the subheadings proposed should or should not be eligible for consideration in the 
machinery exclusion process and whether certain subheadings under Chapters 84 and 85 that 
cover machinery used in domestic manufacturing were omitted and should be included. 
Finally, with respect to the 19 proposed solar manufacturing machinery exclusions, USTR 
requested comments on the scope of each exclusion, including suggested amendments to the 
product description.  
In response to the May 28 notice, USTR received more than 1,100 comments. Of the 
comments received, approximately 420 comments expressed views about the proposed tariff 
increases on certain products, approximately 656 comments expressed views about the 
proposed subheadings eligible for consideration of temporary exclusions under an exclusion 

[Page 9]
9 
process for machinery used in domestic manufacturing, and approximately 80 comments 
expressed views about the proposed 19 temporary exclusions for solar manufacturing 
equipment. The public submissions are available at https://comments.ustr.gov, docket 
number USTR-2024-0007. 
C. Determination to Modify the Actions  
Pursuant to Sections 307(c) and 307(a)(1) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2417(c), 
(a)(1)), the U.S. Trade Representative may modify or terminate any action, subject to the 
specific direction, if any, of the President with respect to such action, that is being taken 
under Section 301 if the burden or restriction on U.S. commerce of the acts, policies, and 
practices that are the subject of such action has increased or decreased, or such action is 
being taken under Section 301(b) and no longer is appropriate. 
As detailed in USTR’s Report, modification of the action is warranted under Section 
307(a)(1)(B) as many of the technology transfer-related acts, policies, and practices 
described in the original Section 301 Report persist and increasingly burden or restrict U.S. 
commerce. Rather than eliminate the technology transfer-related acts, policies, and practices 
that are the subject of the Section 301 investigation, the Report reviews how China has 
become more aggressive, particularly through cybertheft and cyber intrusions, in its attempts 
to acquire and absorb foreign technology and IP on a nonconsensual basis from U.S. 
companies, costing U.S. companies and consumers billions of dollars, and adding to the 
burden or restriction on U.S. commerce. 
Modification of the actions also is appropriate under Section 307(a)(1)(C). The term 
“appropriate”’ as used in subsection C refers to Section 301(b), which requires the U.S, 
Trade Representative to “take all appropriate and feasible action authorized under [Section 

[Page 10]
10 
301(c)] to obtain the elimination of [the] act, policy, or practice.” The specific action that will 
obtain the elimination of an act, policy, or practice is a matter of predictive judgment, to be 
exercised by the U.S. Trade Representative, subject to any specific direction of the President. 
China’s actions over the review period, as discussed in USTR’s Report has shown that 
maintaining the current action is no longer appropriate in order to induce China to eliminate 
its acts, policies, or practices. 
Modification of the actions is further warranted considering the findings in USTR’s 
Report on the effectiveness of the prior actions in achieving the objectives of the 
investigation other actions that could be taken, and the effects of such actions on the U.S. 
economy, including consumers. 
The President has exercised his authority under Section 307 to direct the U.S. Trade 
Representative to modify the actions being taken in the investigation. Specifically, as 
discussed above, the President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to increase the rates of 
duty for specified goods, with specified rates and timing. Additionally, the President directed 
the U.S. Trade Representative to establish an exclusion process for machinery used in 
domestic manufacturing classified within a subheading under Chapters 84 and 85 of the 
HTSUS and to prioritize, in particular, exclusions for certain solar manufacturing equipment. 
The modifications to the actions are set out in the Annexes to this notice. The U.S. 
Trade Representative’s determination takes account of the public comments, the President’s 
direction of May 14, 2024, the policy rationale underlying the President’s direction, as well 
as the advice of the interagency Section 301 committee and appropriate advisory committees. 

[Page 11]
11 
Section 301(c)(3)(B) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(c)(3)(B)) authorizes the U.S. 
Trade Representative to take action against any goods or economic sector of the foreign 
country concerned regardless of whether or not such goods or economic sector are involved 
in the act, policy, or practice subject to investigation. The modifications include increasing 
Section 301 duties on 382 HTSUS subheadings and 7 statistical reporting numbers of the 
HTSUS under 14 product groups. Additionally, the U.S. Trade Representative is modifying 
the actions to temporarily exclude from additional duties certain solar manufacturing 
equipment under 14 product specific exclusions. 
As outlined below, in consideration of public comments and the advice of the Section 
301 committee, the U.S. Trade Representative has made certain adjustments to the 
modifications proposed in May 28 notice. The adjustments and the reasons for them are 
discussed below in USTR’s response to significant comments. 
Annex A contains an informal table of the tariff increases under the 14 product 
groups specified by the President and the 382 subheadings and 7 statistical reporting 
numbers, the tariff rates, and years for tariff increases. Annex B contains the 14 temporary 
exclusions for solar manufacturing equipment. Annex C contains the HTSUS modifications 
to impose additional duties, to increase rates of additional duties, and to exclude certain solar 
manufacturing equipment from additional duties. Annex D contains the Importer 
Certification for ship-to-shore cranes entering under the exclusion. Annex E contains a list of 
HTSUS subheadings eligible for consideration of temporary exclusion under the machinery 
exclusion process. 
Any product listed in the Annexes to this notice, which is subject to the additional 
duties imposed by this determination, and that is admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone, 

[Page 12]
12 
except any product that is eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 
CFR 146.43, only may be admitted as “privileged foreign status,” as defined in 19 CFR 
146.41, effective as of the date that the additional duties are imposed. Products of China that 
are provided for in headings 9903.91.01, 9903.91.02, and 9903.91.03, and listed in 
subdivisions (b), (c) and (d), respectively, of U.S. note 31 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of 
the HTSUS, as well as products of China that are provided for in HTSUS subheading 
9903.92.10, which are admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern 
daylight time on September 27, 2024, only may be admitted as “privileged foreign status.” 
Products of China that are provided for in headings 9903.91.04 and 9903.91.05, and listed in 
subdivisions (e) and (f) of U.S. note 31 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS that are 
admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on 
January 1, 2025, only may be admitted as “privileged foreign status.” Products of China that 
are provided for in headings 9903.91.06, 9903.91.07, and 9903.91.08, and listed in 
subdivisions (g), (h) and (i), respectively, of U.S. note 31 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of 
the HTSUS that are admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern 
daylight time on January 1, 2026, only may be admitted as “privileged foreign status.” All 
such products will be subject upon entry for consumption to any ad valorem rates of duty or 
quantitative limitations related to the classification under the applicable HTSUS subheading. 
D. USTR’s Responses to Significant Comments 
As discussed above, in light of findings in USTR’s Report, the U.S. Trade 
Representative recommended to the President that duties be added or increased on certain 
products in strategic sectors. The U.S. Trade Representative limited recommendations to the 
President to categories of products targeted by China for dominance and/or sectors where the 

[Page 13]
13 
U.S. recently made significant domestic investments, thus incentivizing China to eliminate 
the investigated acts, policies, and practices, and mitigating possible harm to the U.S. 
economy. The President agreed with the U.S. Trade Representative’s recommendation and 
has exercised his authority to direct specific modifications to the actions being taken in the 
investigation. 
Response to Significant Comments on Proposed Tariff Increases  
Battery Parts (Non-Lithium-ion Batteries): The President directed the U.S. Trade 
Representative to increase tariffs on battery parts for non-lithium-ion batteries to 25 percent 
in 2024. In response to the President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed 
increasing tariffs on one HTSUS subheading: 8507.90.40 (Parts of lead-acid storage 
batteries, including separators therefor). 
The single comment on the proposed modification notes that broad tariffs have not 
significantly altered China’s acts, policies, and practices and suggests that new U.S. 
initiatives, such as the Inflation Reduction Act would be more effective. Additionally, the 
comment notes that the proposed modifications will slow U.S. efforts to boost domestic 
production and adoption of electric vehicles. 
For the final determination, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined not to 
amend the proposed modification. As noted in USTR’s Report, the proposed modifications 
complement the significant investments as a result of the Inflation Reduction Act and the 
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law into clean energy technology, clean energy supply chains, and 
clean energy manufacturing. Increasing Section 301 duties on tariff lines covering certain 
sectors will help support these investments, encourage diversification away from Chinese 

[Page 14]
14 
sources, and provide additional leverage with China to eliminate the investigated acts, 
policies, and practices. 
Electric Vehicles: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to increase 
additional duties on electric vehicles to 100 percent in 2024. In response to the President’s 
direction, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed increasing duties on eight HTSUS 
subheadings. 
Some comments request that USTR narrow the scope of products covered by the 
eight subheadings by distinguishing between low-speed vehicles, such as passenger shuttles 
and mobility scooters, and higher speed passenger vehicles that operate on public roads and 
highways. While the comments urge the U.S. Trade Representative to distinguish between 
vehicles based on maximum speed or road readiness, the U.S. Trade Representative’s 
proposal, consistent with Presidential direction, was intended to cover a wide range of 
electric motor vehicles that incorporate high-tech motors and batteries. The products included 
under the proposed subheadings meet the objective to target sophisticated technologies where 
China seeks dominance and where the individual products are part of the same continuum of 
products. 
One comment requests that electric buses that fulfill contracts executed prior to the 
proposed modification be excluded from the additional duties. Unlike with ship-to-shore 
cranes (discussed below), where multiple comments allege broad economic consequences, 
the single comment, when considering China’s industrial policies targeting electric vehicles 
could threaten federal investment in the sector, does not demonstrate broad economic 
consequences such that an exclusion is warranted.  

[Page 15]
15 
Comments also request that USTR broaden the scope of products covered. One 
comment remarks that the proposed modifications do not adequately cover the full scope of 
products included in the President’s direction because the proposal does not include 
motorcycles (including mopeds) and electric bicycles under HTSUS subheading 8711.60.00. 
Another comment asserts that the proposed modification should be expanded to include 
HTSUS subheading 8703.10.50 (golf carts and similar vehicles).  
With respect to motorcycles and electric bicycles, in reviewing the President’s 
direction, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined that electric bicycles and 
motorcycles are distinct from what is traditionally understood as “electric vehicles” and fall 
outside the specific direction of the President. Similarly, electric golf carts and similar 
vehicles may be understood to fall outside the specific direction of the President. While these 
subheadings may include products with some overlapping technology to the subheadings 
covered, limiting the modification to the primary subheading covering traditional electric 
vehicles is most consistent with the President’s direction. 
As a result of China’s efforts to dominate the electric vehicles market, China now 
produces 70 percent of the world’s electric cars—jeopardizing productive investments 
elsewhere. The U.S. Trade Representative has determined that modification to increase the 
duties on electric vehicles will encourage diversification from Chinese sources, while also 
advancing U.S. policy to incentivize the development of, and investments in, a robust electric 
vehicle market, reducing exposure to China’s technology transfer-related acts, policies, and 
practices, and providing additional leverage with China to eliminate the investigated acts, 
policies, and practices. 

[Page 16]
16 
Facemasks: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to increase tariffs 
on facemasks to no less than 25 percent in 2024. In response, the U.S. Trade Representative 
proposed three statistical reporting numbers. These included 6307.90.9845 (N95 Respirators 
of textiles); 6307.90.9850 (respirators of textiles, other than N95); and 6307.90.9875 (face 
masks of textiles, other than disposable). USTR requested commenters to address whether 
additional statistical reporting codes under HTSUS subheading 6307.90.98 should be 
included and whether the tariff rates should be higher than the proposed 25 percent rate. 
Several commenters note that as of January 1, 2023, statistical reporting number 
6307.90.9845 (N95 Respirators of Textiles) was replaced with two statistical reporting 
numbers. For the final modifications, USTR has replaced statistical reporting number 
6307.90.9845 (N95 Respirators of Textiles) with statistical reporting numbers 6307.90.9842 
(surgical N95 respirators) and 6307.90.9844 (other N95 respirators). This adjustment does 
not change the scope of the products covered. 
Other comments express concerns about the availability of facemasks outside of 
China and possible disruption to the supply of facemasks and higher costs for healthcare 
providers. As USTR found in the Report, increasing Section 301 duties on certain personal 
protective equipment will help protect recent investments in increasing domestic production 
and in U.S. preparedness. As a result of those investments, the United States has, or is 
expected to have, sufficient domestic capacity. Several commenters agreed with this finding. 
Additionally, increasing tariffs on facemasks will encourage diversification away from 
China, improve supply chain resiliency, and create greater leverage with China to eliminate 
the investigated acts, policies, and practices. 

[Page 17]
17 
A number of comments suggest adding statistical reporting number 6307.90.9870 
(face masks of textile, disposable). Additional comments suggest adding textile subheadings 
that cover personal protective equipment, but not facemasks. Regarding the proposed tariff 
rate, several comments suggest rates higher than the proposed tariff rate, including 50 
percent, 100 percent, and “the highest rate possible.” A few comments suggest that any rate 
increase be gradual due to possible limitations on availability outside of China.  
Considering the public comments, the advice of the Section 301 Committee, and 
consistent with the President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to 
add statistical reporting number 6307.90.9870 (face masks of textile, disposable), but not to 
add additional textile subheadings that do not cover facemasks. Additionally, for most 
statistical reporting numbers, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to increase tariff 
rates to 25 percent in 2024 and to further increase rates in 2026 to 50 percent. Delaying the 
increase to 50 percent in 2026 is consistent with the President’s direction, but balances 
requests for a rate higher than 25 percent with the public comments requesting that rates 
increase gradually. For statistical reporting number 6307.90.9870 (face masks of textile, 
disposable), the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to increase the tariff rate to 25 
percent in 2025 and to further increase the rate in 2026 to 50 percent. 
Lithium-ion Batteries: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to 
increase tariffs on lithium-ion batteries to 25 percent, with “lithium-ion electrical vehicle 
batteries” increasing in 2024 and “lithium-ion non-electrical vehicle batteries” increasing in 
2026. In response, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed increasing tariffs on two 
statistical reporting numbers. One covers lithium-ion batteries for passenger vehicles 
(8507.60.0010), and a second covers lithium-ion batteries for a broad range of applications, 

[Page 18]
18 
including electric vehicles, other than passenger vehicles (8507.60.0020). The U.S. Trade 
Representative proposed increasing tariffs on 8507.60.0010 (Lithium-ion batteries of a kind 
used as the primary source of electrical power for electrically powered vehicles of 
subheadings 8703.40, 8703.50, 8703.60, 8703.70 or 8703.80) in 2024 and on 8507.60.0020 
(Lithium-ion batteries: Other) in 2026. 
Several commenters request that additional codes be added, including for a 
subheading covering certain inputs or precursor materials used to manufacture lithium-ion 
batteries. Additionally, USTR received comments requesting that certain lithium-ion 
batteries covered by the proposed subheadings, but intended for a particular use, be excluded. 
The U.S. Trade Representative has determined that the requests to remove particular 
batteries are inconsistent with the President’s direction, which broadly covers all lithium-ion 
batteries, and are inconsistent with the goals of diversifying supply chains and of reducing 
our reliance on China in an industry targeted by China for dominance. With respect to the 
inputs and precursor materials used in the production of lithium-ion batteries, these products 
are beyond the scope of the President’s direction, which is limited to complete batteries. 
Medical Gloves: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to increase 
tariffs on medical gloves to no less than 25 percent in 2026. In response, the U.S. Trade 
Representative proposed increasing tariffs to 25 percent in 2026 on one statistical reporting 
number. 
Comments opposing the proposed modification allege that increasing duties on 
medical gloves will raise medical care costs and impact patient care. Additional comments 
request that the increase in tariffs be delayed. Comments generally assert that the production 

[Page 19]
19 
of medical gloves is centralized in China and Malaysia, and that additional duties would push 
production to Malaysia, rather than to the United States. They also assert there is no large-
scale domestic production capacity for nitrile gloves, specifically citing a January 2024 Made 
in America Act Waiver statement by Federal agencies concerning domestic availability of 
nitrile gloves. 
In general, comments supporting the proposed modification suggest that, given the 
artificially low prices of imports from China, the modification would be more effective if 
tariffs rates were increased to 100 percent or higher, increased prior to 2026, and possibly 
increased gradually. One comment also suggested including gloves falling under HTSUS 
4015.19 that are not for medical or surgical use. 
Considering the public comments, the specific direction of the President to increase 
tariffs on medical gloves no less than 25 percent in 2026, and the advice of the Section 301 
Committee, particularly agencies involved in U.S. medical preparedness, the U.S. Trade 
Representative has determined to increase the rate of additional duties on medical gloves to 
50 percent in 2025 and to 100 percent in 2026. 
The United States expects domestic production of nitrile gloves will increase over the 
next year, due in part to domestic investments for critical medical supplies, including medical 
gloves. Recent investments include CARES Act funding that aims to continue support of 
U.S. preparedness and of domestic production of critical medical supplies following the 
COVID pandemic. Increasing tariffs to 50 percent in 2025 will help protect those 
investments and will encourage diversification to sources other than China. While China 
currently accounts for a significant share of U.S. imports of nitrile gloves, the increasing 
availability from U.S. sources and third-country sources will provide the U.S. healthcare 

[Page 20]
20 
systems with alternative sourcing. An additional increase in tariff rates in 2026 is warranted, 
considering the expected increase in U.S. and third-country sources, and is responsive to 
those comments requesting a higher tariff, and will provide additional leverage with China to 
eliminate the investigated acts, policies, and practices. 
With respect to additional gloves that are not for medical or surgical use, these 
products are beyond the scope of the President’s direction, which is limited to medical 
gloves. Accordingly, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined not to amend the 
proposed modification to include these products. 
Natural Graphite: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to increase 
tariffs on natural graphite to 25 percent in 2026. In response to the President’s direction, the 
U.S. Trade Representative proposed to increase tariffs on three subheadings covering three 
different forms of natural graphite.  
Most comments supported the proposed increase in tariffs, with some comments 
requesting a higher tariff rate than the proposed rate. Several of these comments also 
requested that certain additional inputs for lithium-ion batteries be included and treated 
similarly to natural graphite. The few comments opposing the additional duties generally 
assert that the proposed modifications would result in higher prices, would not be effective in 
obtaining the elimination of China’s acts, policies, and practices, and could result in possible 
retaliation from China. China has targeted the processing of critical minerals to become the 
global leader in the critical minerals supply chains. Continued reliance on China for refining 
capacity of critical minerals, including natural graphite, leaves U.S. supply chains vulnerable 
and puts U.S. national security and clean energy goals at risk. Increasing the tariffs on natural 
graphite would encourage diversification away from China and would provide additional 

[Page 21]
21 
leverage with China to eliminate the investigated acts, policies, and practices. Tariffs would 
also protect U.S. investments in a sufficient domestic industrial base for natural graphite and 
would improve the resiliency of the U.S. battery supply chain. 
For these reasons, and considering the President’s direction, and the advice of the 
Section 301 Committee, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined not to amend the 
proposed modifications. 
Other Critical Minerals: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to 
increase tariffs on certain critical minerals to 25 percent in 2024. In response to the 
President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed increasing tariffs on 26 
subheadings.  
The majority of comments opposing increases specifically oppose increasing tariffs 
on 2606.00.00 (aluminum ores and concentrates) and 2849.90.30 (tungsten carbides). They 
assert limited availability of the minerals outside of China and higher costs. Other comments 
suggest the removal of five additional subheadings. Only three of these subheadings received 
more than one comment requesting removal: 8103.20.00 (Tantalum, unwrought (including 
bars and rods obtained simply by sintering); tantalum powders); 8112.21.00 (Chromium, 
unwrought; chromium powders); and 8112.92.30 (Indium, unwrought; indium powders). 
The majority of comments supporting the proposed modifications specifically support 
increasing tariffs on the four subheadings covering tungsten products. These comments state 
that tariffs on various tungsten-related inputs will benefit domestic manufacturing by 
reducing domestic reliance on Chinese imports, establishing an independent domestic supply 
chain, and reducing Chinese access to the intellectual property and technologies of U.S. 

[Page 22]
22 
companies. Several comments emphasize the importance of tungsten-related inputs to 
various critical sectors, such as aerospace, automotive, defense, medical, and oil and gas 
sectors. Some of these comments request that the tariffs on tungsten-related products be 
increased to 50 percent. 
The remaining comments supporting higher tariffs cover various critical minerals; 
most support the higher tariffs to counteract China’s dominance in the market and note that 
current tariff levels are insufficient. Most of these comments also note that higher tariffs will 
have a minimal impact on the domestic economy due to current availability of products from 
sources outside of China or availability from new sources. Comments also note that higher 
tariffs are critical to the new investments that help to diversify supply chains. 
In addition to supporting the proposed modifications, several comments also request 
that additional subheadings be added, including three subheadings covering additional 
tungsten products. Additional comments request the addition of certain uranium subheadings, 
as well as a subheading covering vanadium chlorides. 
Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 Committee, the 
U.S. Trade Representative has determined not to remove any subheadings. China has 
targeted the processing of critical minerals to become the global leader in the critical 
minerals supply chains for electric vehicle batteries, solar products, semiconductors, and 
other key products. The concentration of critical minerals mining and refining capacity in 
China leaves our supply chains vulnerable and puts our national security and clean energy 
goals at risk. Additionally, for many of the products with comments requesting removal, U.S. 
import data show that in recent years China has attempted to dominate supply chains by 
significantly increasing its share of imports. For these products, additional duties will help to 

[Page 23]
23 
maintain existing diversity in the supply chains and increase leverage with China to eliminate 
the investigated acts, policies, and practices. Regarding 2606.00.00 (aluminum ores and 
concentrates), U.S. import data show that China’s share is relatively small (less than 20 
percent). While China’s share of imports under statistical reporting number 2606.00.00.30 
(bauxite, calcined: refractory grade) is more significant, Guyana, a second source, is almost 
as large as China, and higher tariffs may help to encourage greater diversification. Regarding 
2849.90.30 (tungsten carbides), imports from China have increased significantly in recent 
years, but alternative sources remain. Increasing tariffs will support current supply chain 
diversity. Additionally, public comments note recent investments in domestic refining. 
The U.S. Trade Representative also has determined not to add certain proposed 
subheadings for uranium and vanadium chlorides. These subheadings are either already 
subject to Section 301 tariffs of 25 percent, or China’s share of imports is small and 
declining. Regarding the three tariff subheadings covering tungsten products and requested 
for addition, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to propose increasing tariff rates 
for these three subheadings to 25 percent. To that end, USTR will publish a separate notice 
with procedures for interested parties to provide views on increasing tariffs on subheadings: 
8101.94.00 (Tungsten, unwrought (including bars and rods obtained simply by sintering)); 
8101.99.10 (Tungsten bars and rods (o/than those obtained simply by sintering), profiles, 
plates, sheets, strip and foil); and 8101.99.80 (Tungsten, articles nesoi). 
Permanent Magnets: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to impose 
tariffs of 25 percent on permanent magnets in 2026. In response to the President’s direction, 
the U.S. Trade Representative proposed additional duties on products under one subheading 
(8505.11.00). 

[Page 24]
24 
Several comments request that tariffs on permanent magnets not be increased, noting 
that permanent magnets are an intermediate good used in a variety of applications and 
products, including consumer goods. Citing a Department of Commerce report from 2023, 
comments assert limited availability of permanent magnets outside of China, including from 
domestic sources. 
Comments in support of the proposed modification highlight the vulnerability of the 
U.S. economy and national security as a result of our continued reliance on China for 
permanent magnets, and in particular NdFeB, which are critical for electric vehicle motors 
(an area where China seeks dominance), as well as defense applications. The comments 
assert that the potential impact on U.S. consumers from the proposed modification would be 
minimal, as permanent magnets generally account for a low percentage of the total cost of 
final goods.  
Considering the comments and the advice of the Section 301 Committee, and 
consistent with the President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to 
impose additional tariffs on products falling under subheading 8505.11.00. The 2023 
Department of Commerce report indicates that at the time of the report the demand for 
permanent magnets outpaced domestic manufacturing capacity, but the report also notes 
federal investments and other efforts in support of reestablishing domestic production 
capacity, as well as plans for three U.S.-headquartered firms to establish U.S. NdFeB magnet 
manufacturing facilities by 2026. Increasing tariffs on permanent magnets in 2026 accounts 
for the current limited availability of permanent magnets outside of China, complements the 
upcoming investments in domestic production, and further encourages domestic investments. 

[Page 25]
25 
Semiconductors: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to increase 
tariffs on semiconductors to 50 percent in 2025. In response to the President’s direction, the 
U.S. Trade Representative proposed increasing tariffs on 16 subheadings.  
Several comments highlight the importance of semiconductors in a variety 
applications and critical sectors, including the healthcare and solar industries. Comments 
note that following the enactment of the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce 
Semiconductors (CHIPS) and Science Act in 2022, the United States has made progress in 
investing in domestic production and in recapturing semiconductor manufacturing from 
China’s dominance. Comments also assert that imports from China undermine that progress 
and the incentives under the CHIPS Act. Comments assert that the tariffs have helped to 
stimulate domestic manufacturing, support supply chain resiliency, and reduce our 
dependence on China. One comment suggests broadening the modifications to capture 
semiconductors entering the United States in downstream products. 
Comments opposing the increase in tariffs on semiconductors primarily comment on 
the financial impact of the tariffs on U.S. companies and the U.S. economy. These 
commenters assert that the increased duties will increase domestic manufacturing costs, will 
be passed on to consumers, will contribute to domestic inflation, and will reduce the 
competitiveness of U.S. products in the global market. Comments also state that increased 
manufacturing costs may encourage U.S. companies to move manufacturing out of the 
United States to third countries. 
Aside from advocating for the removal of the tariffs, comments opposing the tariffs 
also propose several alternatives to increased duties. One commenter argues that an effective 
alternative to the tariffs would be bilateral policy discussions between the United States and 

[Page 26]
26 
China. Another commenter suggests additional programs that strengthen domestic 
manufacturing, such as under the CHIPS and Science Act and the Inflation Reduction Act, 
would be more effective than imposing higher tariffs. Alternatively, the same commenter 
suggests a longer transition time to allow for additional manufacturing, noting that CHIPS 
funding has yet to be fully disbursed and it may take several years before domestic 
semiconductors will be available. Some comments request the removal of certain 
subheadings. They generally assert that the tariffs would increase prices and harm domestic 
manufacturing. One comment asserts that the tariffs are counterproductive to the 
Administration’s goals to increase domestic production of electric vehicles. 
Considering the public comments, the advice of the Section 301 Committee, and 
consistent with the direction of the President, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined 
that excluding particular products or subheadings is not warranted. China has targeted the 
semiconductor sector for dominance and is rapidly expanding its capacity, particularly for 
foundational semiconductors. Through the CHIPS and Science Act, the United States is 
making a nearly $53 billion investment in American semiconductor manufacturing capacity, 
research, innovation, and workforce. This investment will encourage diversification to 
alternative sources, providing additional leverage with China to eliminate the investigated 
acts, policies, and practices, and will help counteract decades of disinvestment and offshoring 
that has reduced the United States’ capacity to manufacture semiconductors domestically. 
Raising the tariff rate on semiconductors is an important initial step to complement the 
sustainability of these investments. Accordingly, the U.S. Trade Representative has 
determined to increase tariffs on the 16 proposed subheadings. 

[Page 27]
27 
Ship-to-shore cranes: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to 
increase tariffs on ship-to-shore cranes to 25 percent in 2024. In response to the President’s 
direction, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed increasing tariffs on certain ship-to-shore 
cranes (transporter cranes, gantry cranes, and bridge cranes) under subheading 8426.19.00. 
In addressing the effectiveness and impact of the proposed tariff increase, a number 
of commenters assert that because the lead time for purchasing ship-to-shore cranes is often 
more than two years, the additional duties would increase costs significantly on purchases 
contracted for well before the proposed modification. Additionally, due to purchase 
contracts, the increased tariffs would not be effective in obtaining the elimination of, or in 
counteracting China’s acts, policies, and practices and would broadly impact U.S. ports and 
the U.S. economy. The majority of comments suggest delaying the additional duties until 
2026 to allow cranes under contracts executed prior to the announced proposed modifications 
to enter without the Section 301 duties.  
Considering the possible broad economic impact discussed in the comments, and 
consistent with the President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to 
increase duties on ship-to-shore cranes in 2024, but will allow for exclusions for cranes that 
fulfill contracts executed prior to May 14, 2024, and that enter the United States prior to May 
14, 2026. The exclusion balances the possible impact on the U.S. economy with the security 
interests of the United States from the threat of Chinese state-sponsored cyber intrusions of 
critical infrastructure. 
Ship-to-shore gantry cranes, configured as a high- or low-profile steel superstructure 
and designed to unload intermodal containers from vessels with coupling devices for 
containers, including spreaders or twist-locks (provided for in subheadings 8426.19.00), will 

[Page 28]
28 
be exempt, provided: (1) they are fulfilling in whole or in part an executed contract for sale 
dated prior to May 14, 2024, for goods that are entered for consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, in the United States prior to May 14, 2026, and (2) the importer 
completes the certification in Annex D to this notice and provides the completed certification 
as part of the importer’s electronic entry summary to U.S. Customs and Border Protection by 
uploading it to the Document Imaging System in the Automated Commercial Environment at 
the time that classification is declared under heading 9903.91.09 of the HTSUS. 
Solar Cells (whether or not assembled into modules): The President directed the 
U.S. Trade Representative to increase tariffs on solar cells to 50 percent in 2024. In response 
to the President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed increasing tariffs on two 
subheadings. 
Comments supporting the tariff increases assert that the tariffs are critical to counter 
China’s unfair policies and practices that target the solar industry. They note that China has 
invested in the long-term dominance of the global solar supply chain, which has resulted in 
limited alternatives and increasing dependence on Chinese suppliers. The comments assert 
that increasing the tariffs will allow the burgeoning domestic industry to compete, creating a 
more resilient domestic supply chain, improving U.S. energy security, and promoting clean 
energy initiatives. 
Comments also note that initiatives, such as the Inflation Reduction Act and the 
CHIPS and Science Act, provide critical incentives to the shift solar supply chains to the 
United States, but these incentives are threatened by solar imports from China. Two 
comments suggest that additional subheadings be added to cover certain inputs used in 
manufacturing solar cells. The two subheadings are: 2804.61.00 (Silicon containing by 

[Page 29]
29 
weight not less than 99.99 percent of silicon); and 3818.00.00 (Chemical elements doped for 
use in electronics, in the form of discs, wafers etc., chemical compounds doped for electronic 
use). 
There were no comments opposing the proposed subheading, but one comment 
requested that a statistical reporting number under one of the subheadings be excluded 
(8541.43.0010). The commenter asserts that the products covered by the statistical reporting 
number should be excluded because they are not the subject of technology-transfer 
agreements and increasing the tariffs will result in higher prices.  
Considering the comments, and the advice of Section 301 Committee, and consistent 
with the direction of the President to increase tariffs on solar cells (whether or not assembled 
into modules), the U.S. Trade Representative has determined that removing statistical 
reporting number 8541.43.0010 is not warranted merely because it has not been subject to 
China’s acts, policies, and practices or may result in higher prices. See Section 301(c)(3)(B) 
of the Trade Act (19 USC 2411(c)(3)(B)).  
Regarding the request to add subheadings 2804.61.00 and 3818.00.00, the U.S. Trade 
Representative has determined to propose increasing tariff rates for these two subheadings to 
50 percent. The polysilicon and wafers that are imported under these two subheadings are 
critical for manufacturing solar cells and semiconductors.  As noted in USTR’s Report, 
China now dominates manufacturing capacity for polysilicon and wafers, accounting for 93 
percent of polysilicon manufacturing capacity and 95 percent of wafer capacity. China’s 
dominance in the manufacturing of wafers and polysilicon is likely to undermine new 
investments in domestic manufacturing, impede the resiliency of U.S. supply chains for solar 
cells and semiconductors, and undermine the effectiveness of the tariffs on solar cells and 

[Page 30]
30 
semiconductors. Accordingly, USTR will publish a separate notice with procedures for 
interested parties to provide views on increasing tariffs on subheadings: 2804.61.00 (Silicon 
containing by weight not less than 99.99 percent of silicon); and 3818.00.00 (Chemical 
elements doped for use in electronics, in the form of discs, wafers etc., chemical compounds 
doped for electronic use).  
Increasing tariffs on the two proposed subheadings will encourage the diversification 
of supply chains and will lessen dependence on China for these products, providing 
additional leverage with China to eliminate the investigated acts, policies, and practices. The 
tariffs also complement other Administration goals that seek to defend the United States 
against China’s policy-driven non-market excess capacity, which has led to extreme 
concentration of production in China and underpriced exports. Accordingly, the U.S. Trade 
Representative has determined to increase tariffs on the two proposed subheadings. 
Steel and Aluminum: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to 
increase tariffs on steel and aluminum products to 25 percent in 2024. In response to the 
President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed increasing or adding tariffs on 
321 steel and aluminum subheadings in 2024. 
The 321 subheadings are within the scope of products subject to additional duties 
under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, but are not currently 
subject to 25 percent duties under Section 301. Increasing or adding duties to these 321 
subheadings would make nearly all of the steel and aluminum subheadings that are within the 
scope of the Section 232 investigations of steel and aluminum subject to 25 percent duties 
under Section 301and will reduce opportunities for circumvention, making the actions more 
effective. USTR did not propose adding or increasing Section 301 duties on 17 subheadings 

[Page 31]
31 
within the scope of products covered by Section 232. Data from the Department of 
Commerce’s Section 232 exclusion process show that a majority of exclusions requested for 
products under the 17 subheadings were granted, and there is limited availability for the 
products outside of China. 
Several commenters suggest USTR include additional tariff codes covering upstream 
and downstream products related to steel and aluminum, but outside the scope of the Section 
232 investigations. The U.S. Trade Representative has determined not to add subheadings 
outside the scope of the Section 232 investigations on steel and aluminum and has 
determined that it is appropriate to use the same scope of products covered by the Section 
232 investigations that were defined by Presidential proclamation. See Proclamation 9704 of 
March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Import of Aluminum into the United States), and Proclamation 
9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel into the United States). 
Some commenters suggest USTR include the 17 subheadings covered by the Section 
232 investigations that were not proposed for tariff increases. Under the Department of 
Commerce’s exclusion process for Section 232 products, products are granted exclusion 
either where they are not produced in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available 
amounts, or where there is a specific national security consideration. As noted above, for 
products under these 17 subheadings, Commerce granted exclusions, and data indicates that 
these products have limited availability outside of China. Accordingly, the U.S. Trade 
Representative has determined that it would not be appropriate to increase tariffs on these 17 
subheadings. 
Syringes and needles: The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to 
increase tariffs on syringes and needles to no less than 50 percent. In response to the 

[Page 32]
32 
President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed increasing tariffs on two 
subheadings. USTR requested commenters to address whether the tariff rate should be higher 
than the proposed rate. 
Regarding the proposed rate, several comments suggest that higher rates would help 
support domestic manufacturing and recommended rates as high as 100 percent. Most 
comments opposing the proposed increase simply note that prices would likely increase. 
However, a large number of comments report a limited availability of enteral syringes 
outside of China and assert that the proposed increase would impact the supply of enteral 
syringes, which are necessary for vulnerable patients. These comments request that enteral 
syringes be excluded. 
Considering the comments and the advice of Section 301 Committee, and recognizing 
that syringes and needles are critical to U.S. preparedness in responding to public health 
emergencies and the need to maintain alternative sources, consistent with the President’s 
direction, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to increase tariffs on syringes and 
needles under the two subheadings to 100 percent in 2024. To address the possible shortages 
of enteral syringes, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to exclude enteral syringes 
through January 1, 2026. 
USTR’s Response to Significant Comments on Machinery Exclusion Process 
The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to establish a process by which 
interested persons may request that particular machinery used in domestic manufacturing 
classified within a subheading under Chapters 84 and 85 of the HTSUS be temporarily 
excluded from Section 301 tariffs, and to prioritize, in particular, exclusions for certain solar 

[Page 33]
33 
manufacturing. In response to the President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative 
proposed 312 subheadings eligible for consideration of temporary exclusion, and proposed 
19 temporary exclusions for solar manufacturing equipment. 
Chapters 84 and 85 of the HTSUS cover most machinery used in manufacturing 
processes. The 312 subheadings proposed, include machines used to physically alter a good 
in the manufacturing process. The limited scope of the exclusion process strikes a balance 
between mitigating U.S. companies’ costs in expanding domestic production capacity while 
maintaining the appropriate amount of leverage with China to encourage China to eliminate 
the acts, policies, and practices that are the subject of the investigation. 
In response to USTR’s request for comments on whether the 312 subheadings 
proposed should or should not be eligible in the machinery exclusion process and whether 
certain subheading under Chapters 84 and 85 that cover machinery used in domestic 
manufacturing were omitted and should be included, USTR received more than 650 
comments, with approximately half of the comments proposing additional subheadings under 
Chapters 84 and 85. The remaining comments either opposed including certain subheadings, 
supported proposed subheadings, or proposed subheadings not under Chapters 84 and 85. 
Considering the comments, and the advice of the Section 301 Committee, and 
consistent with the direction of the President, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined 
to add five additional subheadings to be eligible for consideration of temporary exclusions. 
These five subheadings are: 8421.21.00 (Machinery and apparatus for filtering or purifying 
water); 8421.29.00 (Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus for liquids, nesoi); 
8421.39.01 (Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus for gases, other than intake air 
filters or catalytic conv. for internal combustion engines); 8428.70.00 (Industrial robots); and 

[Page 34]
34 
8443.19.30 (Printing machinery, nesoi). These subheadings appear to include machinery used 
to physically alter goods in the manufacturing process. 
Consistent with the President’s direction, the U.S. Trade Representative has 
determined not to add subheadings outside of Chapters 84 and 85 or subheadings that only 
include parts, accessories, consumables, or general equipment that is unable to physically 
change a good. Additionally, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined not to remove 
any of the proposed subheadings. Comments requesting that subheadings be removed 
generally assert that machines covered by the subheading were available from sources 
outside of China. Under the exclusion process, commenters both supporting and opposing 
particular exclusions for machines under any of these subheadings will have an opportunity 
to provide their views. This will provide USTR with greater opportunity to gather more 
specific information about the machinery requested for exclusion, including the availability 
of products outside of China. 
Nineteen Proposed Solar Manufacturing Equipment Exclusions 
The President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to prioritize exclusions for 
certain solar manufacturing equipment. In response to the President’s direction, the U.S. 
Trade Representative proposed 19 exclusions covering solar manufacturing equipment. The 
exclusions included five exclusions for equipment to manufacture solar modules, six 
exclusions for equipment to manufacture solar cells, and eight exclusions for equipment to 
manufacture solar wafers. 
USTR received several comments requesting that the exclusions for solar 
manufacturing equipment be made effective prior to May 28, 2024. USTR received a number 

[Page 35]
35 
of comments opposing the exclusions based on the assertion that certain equipment is 
available from alternative sources. Specifically, with respect to the five exclusions for solar 
module manufacturing equipment and the six exclusions for solar cell manufacturing 
equipment, a number of comments assert that alternative sources for the machinery are 
available, both domestically and in Europe. Several comments noted that excluding Chinese 
equipment would disincentivize companies to purchase from alternative sources and 
negatively impact burgeoning supply chains. Comments supporting the exclusions focus 
primarily on Chinese equipment being low-cost equipment, but some also assert that China is 
the only source for most solar equipment.  
Considering the public comments, the specific direction of the President to prioritize 
exclusions for solar equipment, and the advice of the Section 301 Committee, particularly 
agencies involved in efforts to build capacity for domestic production of solar products, the 
U.S. Trade Representative has determined not to adopt the five exclusions covering solar 
manufacturing equipment for modules. Available information indicates that there is sufficient 
availability of the products covered by the exclusions outside of China, such that the 
exclusions are not warranted and could harm alternative sourcing currently available. 
Regarding proposals to temporarily exclude wafer and cell manufacturing equipment, 
the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to adopt the 14 exclusions for this 
manufacturing equipment. There is limited information regarding the availability and pricing 
of the cell manufacturing equipment covered by these exclusions outside of China, but some 
of the risks of granting the exclusions are mitigated by the short prospective duration of the 
exclusions. The exclusion period will allow for the development of strategies to reduce U.S. 
reliance on Chinese cell manufacturing equipment, and for greater supply chain resilience 

[Page 36]
36 
and enhanced domestic manufacturing more generally. Regarding the wafer manufacturing 
equipment, available information indicates that alternative sources do not currently have 
sufficient supply of the equipment covered by these exclusions. Regarding requests for a 
longer retroactive period for the exclusions for solar manufacturing equipment, the U.S. 
Trade Representative has determined to make the exclusions effective January 1, 2024, and 
through May 31, 2025. The additional time will support those investments in domestic 
production that were made in 2024, but prior to USTR’s announced proposals. With the goal 
of reducing reliance on China, and to ensure that imports under the exclusions support both 
greater domestic production of solar products and supply chain resilience, USTR will 
actively monitor imports under the 14 temporary exclusions. Additionally, based on the 
public comments, the U.S. Trade Representative has made certain amendments to the 
proposed product descriptions for the exclusions. The final product descriptions for the 
adopted exclusions are included in Annex B of this notice. 
The U.S. Trade Representative will continue to consider the actions taken in this 
investigation. In the event that further modifications are appropriate, the U.S. Trade 
Representative intends to take into account the extensive public comments provided in 
response to the May 28 notice. 
Juan Millan,  
Acting General Counsel, 
Office of the United States Trade Representative. 
  

[Page 37]
37 
ANNEX A - Tariff Increases 
 
Battery Parts (Non-lithium-ion Batteries) 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
8507.90.40 
Parts of lead-acid storage batteries, including 
separators therefor 25% 2024 
 
Electric Vehicles 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
8702.40.31 
Motor vehicles w/electric motor, to transport 16 
or more persons, incl driver 100% 2024 
8702.40.61 
Motor vehicles w/electric motor, to transport 10 
to 15 persons, incl driver 100% 2024 
8702.90.31 
Motor vehicles nesoi, to transport 16 or more 
persons, incl driver 100% 2024 
8702.90.61 
Motor vehicles nesoi, to transport 10 to 15 
persons, incl driver 100% 2024 
8703.60.00 
Motor vehicles to transport persons, w/spark-
ign. IC recip. piston engine & elec motor 
capable of charge by plug to external source 100% 2024 
8703.70.00 
Motor vehicles to transport persons, w/diesel 
engine & elec motor capable of charge by plug 
to external source 100% 2024 
8703.80.00 
Motor vehicles to transport persons, w/electric 
motor for propulsion 100% 2024 
8703.90.01 Motor vehicles to transport persons, nesoi 100% 2024 
 
Facemasks 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
6307.90.9842 Surgical N95 Respirators of Textile 25% 2024 
50% 2026 
6307.90.9844 Non-surgical N95 Respirators of Textiles 25% 2024 
50% 2026 
6307.90.9850 Respirators of Textiles, Other than N95 25% 2024 
50% 2026 
6307.90.9870 Face Masks of Textiles, Disposable 25% 2025 
50% 2026 
6307.90.9875 Face Masks of Textiles, Other than 
Disposable 
25% 2024 
50% 2026 
 

[Page 38]
38 
Lithium-ion Electrical Vehicle Batteries 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
8507.60.0010 
Lithium-ion batteries of a kind used as the 
primary source of electrical power for 
electrically powered vehicles of subheadings 
8703.40, 8703.50, 8703.60, 8703.70 or 
8703.80 25% 2024 
 
Lithium-ion Non-electrical Vehicle Batteries 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
8507.60.0020 Lithium-ion batteries: Other 25% 2026 
 
Medical Gloves 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
4015.12.10 Medical or surgical gloves of vulcanized rubber 
other than hard rubber 
50% 2025 
100% 2026 
 
 
Natural Graphite 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
2504.10.10 
Natural graphite, crystalline flake (not 
including flake dust) 25% 2026 
2504.10.50 
Natural graphite in powder or flakes (other than 
crystalline flake) 25% 2026 
2504.90.00 
Natural graphite, other than in powder or in 
flakes 25% 2026 
 
Other Critical Minerals 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
2602.00.00 
Manganese ores and concentrates including 
ferruginous manganese ores & concentrates 
with manganese content over 20% calculated 
on dry weight 25% 2024 
2605.00.00 Cobalt ores and concentrates 25% 2024 
2606.00.00 Aluminum ores and concentrates 25% 2024 
2608.00.00 Zinc ores and concentrates 25% 2024 
2610.00.00 Chromium ores and concentrates 25% 2024 
2611.00.60 Tungsten concentrates 25% 2024 

[Page 39]
39 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
2825.90.30 Tungsten oxides 25% 2024 
2841.80.00 Tungstates (wolframates) 25% 2024 
2844.41.00 
Tritium and its compounds, alloys, dispersions, 
ceramic products and mixtures thereof 25% 2024 
2844.42.00 
Actinium, californium, curium, einsteinium, 
gadolinium, polonium, radium, uranium & their 
compounds, alloys, dispersions, ceramic 
products & mixtures 25% 2024 
2844.43.00 
Other radioactive elements, isotopes, 
compounds, nesoi; alloys, dispersions, ceramic 
products and mixtures thereof 25% 2024 
2844.44.00 Radioactive residues 25% 2024 
2849.90.30 Tungsten carbide 25% 2024 
7202.60.00 Ferronickel 25% 2024 
7202.93.40 
Ferroniobium containing by weight less than 
0.02 percent of phosphorus or sulfur or less 
than 0.4 percent of silicon 25% 2024 
7202.93.80 Ferroniobium, nesoi 25% 2024 
7901.11.00 
Zinc (o/than alloy), unwrought, containing 
o/99.99% by weight of zinc 25% 2024 
7901.12.10 
Zinc (o/than alloy), unwrought, casting-grade 
zinc, containing at least 97.5% but less than 
99.99% by weight of zinc 25% 2024 
7901.12.50 
Zinc (o/than alloy), unwrought, o/than casting-
grade zinc, containing at least 97.5% but less 
than 99.99% by wt. of zinc 25% 2024 
7901.20.00 Zinc alloy, unwrought 25% 2024 
8001.10.00 Tin (o/than alloy), unwrought 25% 2024 
8001.20.00 Tin alloy, unwrought 25% 2024 
8101.10.00 Tungsten, powders 25% 2024 
8103.20.00 
Tantalum, unwrought (including bars and rods 
obtained simply by sintering); tantalum 
powders 25% 2024 
8112.21.00 Chromium, unwrought; chromium powders 25% 2024 
8112.92.30 Indium, unwrought; indium powders 25% 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 

[Page 40]
40 
Permanent Magnets 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
8505.11.00 
Permanent magnets and articles intended to 
become permanent magnets after 
magnetization, of metal 25% 2026 
 
Semiconductors 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
8541.10.00 
Diodes, other than photosensitive or light-
emitting diodes 50% 2025 
8541.21.00 
Transistors, other than photosensitive 
transistors, with a dissipation rating of less than 
1 W 50% 2025 
8541.29.00 
Transistors, other than photosensitive 
transistors, with a dissipation rating of 1 W or 
more 50% 2025 
8541.30.00 
Thyristors, diacs and triacs, other than 
photosensitive devices 50% 2025 
8541.49.10 
Other photosensitive semiconductor diodes, 
other than light-emitting 50% 2025 
8541.49.70 Photosensitive transistors 50% 2025 
8541.49.80 
Photosensitive semiconductor devices nesoi, 
optical coupled isolators 50% 2025 
8541.49.95 
Other photosensitive semiconductor devices, 
other than diodes or transistors, nesoi 50% 2025 
8541.51.00 
Other semiconductor-based transducers, other 
than photosensitive transducers 50% 2025 
8541.59.00 
Other semiconductor devices, other than 
semiconductor-based transducers, other than 
photosensitive devices, nesoi 50% 2025 
8541.90.00 
Parts of diodes, transistors, similar 
semiconductor devices, photosensitive 
semiconductor devices, LED's and mounted 
piezoelectric crystals 50% 2025 
8542.31.00 
Electronic integrated circuits: processors and 
controllers 50% 2025 
8542.32.00 Electronic integrated circuits: memories 50% 2025 
8542.33.00 Electronic integrated circuits: amplifiers 50% 2025 
8542.39.00 Electronic integrated circuits: other 50% 2025 
8542.90.00 
Parts of electronic integrated circuits and 
microassemblies 50% 2025 
 

[Page 41]
41 
Ship-to-Shore Cranes 
Proposed Product Description Rate Timing 
Ship-to-shore gantry cranes, configured as a high- or low-
profile steel superstructure and designed to unload intermodal 
containers from vessels with coupling devices for containers, 
including spreaders or twist-locks (provided for in subheading 
8426.19.00), except for such cranes provided for in 
subheading 8426.19.00, that are fulfilling in whole or in part 
an executed contract for sale dated prior to May 14, 2024, for 
goods that are entered for consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, in the United States prior to May 
14, 2026 25% 2024 
 
Solar Cells (whether or not assembled into modules) 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
8541.42.00 
Photovoltaic cells, not assembled in modules or 
made up into panels 50% 2024 
8541.43.00 
Photovoltaic cells assembled in modules or 
made up into panels 50% 2024 
 
Steel and Aluminum Products 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7206.10.00 Iron and nonalloy steel ingots 25% 2024 
7206.90.00 
Iron and nonalloy steel in primary forms 
(o/than ingots) 25% 2024 
7207.11.00 
Iron or nonalloy steel semifinished products, 
w/less than 0.25% carbon, w/rect. cross 
sect.(incl. sq.), w/width less than twice 
thickness 25% 2024 
7207.12.00 
Iron or nonalloy steel semifinished products, 
w/less than 0.25% carbon, w/rect. cross sect. 
(exclud. sq.), nesoi 25% 2024 
7207.19.00 
Iron or nonalloy steel semifinished products, 
w/less than 0.25% carbon, o/than w/rect. cross 
section 25% 2024 
7207.20.00 
Iron or nonalloy steel semifinished products, 
w/0.25% or more of carbon 25% 2024 
7208.10.15 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, w/patterns in relief, in 
coils, pickled, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 

[Page 42]
42 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7208.10.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+,hot-rolled 
flat-rolled product, in coil,w/pattern in relief, 
w/thick 4.75mm+,not pickld,not 
clad/plated/coatd 25% 2024 
7208.10.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel,width 600mm+,hot-rolled 
flat-rolled product,in coil,w/pattern in 
relief,w/thick <4.75mm,not pickld,not 
clad/plated/coatd 25% 2024 
7208.25.30 
Nonalloy hi-strength steel, width 600mm+, hot-
rolled flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick 
4.75mm+, pickled, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7208.25.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick 4.7mm or 
more, pickled, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7208.26.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick 3mm or 
mor but less 4.75mm, pickled, not clad/plated 25% 2024 
7208.27.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick less than 
3mm, pickled, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7208.36.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick o/10mm, 
not pickled/clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7208.37.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick 4.75mm 
or more & n/o 10mm, not pickled/clad/plated 25% 2024 
7208.38.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick 3mm or 
more & less 4.75mm, not pickld/clad/plated 25% 2024 
7208.39.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick less than 
3mm, not pickled/clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7208.40.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, w/pattern in relief, not 
coils, w/thick 4.75 or more, 
n/clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7208.40.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, w/pattern in relief, not 
coils, w/thick < 4.75mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7208.51.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, nesoi, not in coils, w/thick 
o/10mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 

[Page 43]
43 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7208.52.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, neosi, not in coils, w/thick 
4.75mm+ but n/o 10mm, not clad/plated/ 25% 2024 
7208.53.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, neosi, not in coils, w/thick 
3mm+ but < 4.75mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7208.54.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, neosi, not in coils, w/thick 
less than 3mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7208.90.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, nesoi, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.15.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick 3mm+, 
not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.16.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick o/1mm but 
less than 3mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.17.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick 0.5mm or 
more but n/o 1mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.18.15 
Nonalloy hi-strength steel, width 600mm+, 
cold-rolled flat-rolled products, in coils, 
w/thick less than 0.5mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.18.25 
Nonalloy steel(blackplate), width 600mm+, 
cold-rolled flat-rolled products, in coils, 
w/thick less than 0.361mm, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.18.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled 
flat-rolled products, in coils, w/thick 
0.361mm+ but less 5mm, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.25.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled 
flat-rolled products, not in coils, w/thick 3mm 
or more, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.26.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled 
flat-rolled products, not in coils, w/thick o/1mm 
but less than 3mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.27.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled 
flat-rolled products, not in coils, w/thick 
0.5mm+ but n/o 1mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 

[Page 44]
44 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7209.28.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled 
flat-rolled products, not in coils, w/thick less 
than 0.5mm, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7209.90.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products further worked than cold-rolled, not 
clad/plated/coated, nesoi 25% 2024 
7210.11.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, plated or coated with tin, w/thick. 0.5 
mm or more 25% 2024 
7210.12.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, plated or coated with tin, less than 0.5 
mm thick 25% 2024 
7210.20.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, plated or coated with lead, including 
terneplate 25% 2024 
7210.30.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, electrolytically plated or coated with 
zinc 25% 2024 
7210.41.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, plated or coated with zinc (other than 
electrolytically), corrugated 25% 2024 
7210.49.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, plated or coated with zinc (other than 
electrolytically), not corrugated 25% 2024 
7210.50.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, plated or coated with chromium 
oxides or with chromium and chromium oxides 25% 2024 
7210.61.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, plated or coated with aluminum-zinc 
alloys 25% 2024 
7210.69.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, plated or coated with aluminum 
o/than aluminum-zinc alloy 25% 2024 
7210.70.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, painted/varnished or coated w/plastic 
but not plated/coated or clad w/metal 25% 2024 
7210.70.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, painted/varnished or coated w/plastic, 
nesoi 25% 2024 
7210.90.10 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, clad 25% 2024 

[Page 45]
45 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7210.90.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, electrolytically coated or plated with 
base metal, nesoi 25% 2024 
7210.90.90 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, plated or coated, nesoi 25% 2024 
7211.13.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/600mm, hot-
rolled flat-rolled universal mill plate, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.14.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/600mm, hot-
rolled flat-rolled products, nesoi, w/thick of 
4.75mm or more, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.19.15 
Nonalloy hi-strength steel, width less 
th/300mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled products, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.19.20 
Iron/nonalloy steel, neosi, width less 
th/300mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled products, 
w/thick o/1.25 mm but n/o 4.75 mm, 
n/clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.19.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, neosi, width less 
th/300mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled products, 
w/thick 1.25mm or less, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.19.45 
Nonalloy hi-strength steel, width 300mm+ but 
less th/600mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled products, 
not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.19.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, neosi, width 300mm+ but 
less th/600mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled products, 
pickled, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.19.75 
Iron/nonalloy steel, neosi, width 300mm+ but 
less th/600mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled products, 
not pickled, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.23.15 
Nonalloy hi-strength steel, width less 
th/300mm, cold-rolled flat-rolled, <0.25% 
carbon, w/thick o/1.25mm, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.23.20 
Iron/nonalloy steel, nesoi, width less 
th/300mm, cold-rolled flat-rolled, <0.25% 
carbon, w/thick o/1.25mm, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.23.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, nesoi, width less 
th/300mm, cold-rolled flat-rolled, <0.25% 
carbon, w/thick o/0.25mm n/o 1.25mm, not 
clad/plated 25% 2024 

[Page 46]
46 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7211.23.45 
Iron/nonalloy steel, nesoi, width less 
th/300mm, cold-rolled flat-rolled, <0.25% 
carbon, w/thick n/o 0.25mm, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.23.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, nesoi, width 300mm+ but 
less th/600mm, cold-rolled flat-rolled, <0.25% 
carbon, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.29.20 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/300mm, cold-
rolled flat-rolled, w/0.25% or more 
carbon,w/thick o/0.25mm, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.29.45 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/300mm, cold-
rolled flat-rolled, w/0.25% or more 
carbon,w/thick 0.25mm or less, not 
clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.29.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 300mm+ but less 
th/600mm, cold-rolled flat-rolled, w/0.25% or 
more carbon, not clad/plated/coated 25% 2024 
7211.90.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/600mm, flat-
rolled further worked than cold-rolled, not clad, 
plated or coated 25% 2024 
7212.10.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/600mm, flat-
rolled products, plated or coated with tin 25% 2024 
7212.20.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/600mm, flat-
rolled products, electrolytically plated or coated 
with zinc 25% 2024 
7212.30.10 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/300mm, flat-
rolled products, plated/coated with zinc (other 
than electrolytically), w/thick o/0.25mm 25% 2024 
7212.30.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/300mm, flat-
rolled products, plated/coated w/zinc (other 
than electrolytically), w/thick 0.25mm or less 25% 2024 
7212.30.50 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 300+ but less 
th/600mm, flat-rolled products, plated or coated 
with zinc (other than electrolytically) 25% 2024 
7212.40.10 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/300mm, flat-
rolled products, painted, varnished or coated 
w/plastic 25% 2024 
7212.40.50 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width 300+ but less 
th/600mm, flat-rolled products, painted, 
varnished or coated w/plastic 25% 2024 

[Page 47]
47 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7212.50.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/600mm, flat-
rolled products, plated or coated nesoi 25% 2024 
7212.60.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, width less th/600mm, flat-
rolled products, clad 25% 2024 
7213.10.00 
Iron/nonalloy, concrete reinforcing bars and 
rods in irregularly wound coils, hot-rolled 25% 2024 
7213.20.00 
Free-cutting steel, bars and rods in irregularly 
wound coils, hot-rolled 25% 2024 
7213.91.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, nesoi, hot-rolled bars & 
rods in irregularly wound coils, w/cir. x-sect. 
diam. <14mm, n/tempered/treated/partly mfd 25% 2024 
7213.91.45 
Iron/nonalloy steel, nesoi, hot-rolled bars & 
rods in irregularly wound coils, w/cir. x-sect. 
diam. <14mm, w/0.6%+ of carbon, nesoi 25% 2024 
7213.91.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, nesoi, hot-rolled bars & 
rods in irregularly wound coils, w/cir. x-sect. 
diam. <14mm, w/less th/0.6% carbon, nesoi 25% 2024 
7213.99.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, nesoi, hot-rolled bars & 
rods, w/cir. x-sect. diam 14+mm or non-circ. x-
sect., in irregularly wound coils, nesoi 25% 2024 
7214.20.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, concrete reinforcing bars 
and rods, not further worked than hot-rolled, 
hot-drawn or hot-extruded, n/coils 25% 2024 
7214.30.00 
Free-cutting steel, bars and rods, not further 
worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or hot-
extruded, n/coils, nesoi 25% 2024 
7214.91.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, bars and rods, not further 
worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or hot-
extruded, w/rectangular (o/than square) X-
section 25% 2024 
7214.99.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, bars and rods, not further 
worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or hot-
extruded, w/non-rectangular X-sect, not in coils 25% 2024 
7215.10.00 
Free-cutting steel, bars and rods, not further 
worked than cold-formed or cold-finished, not 
in coils 25% 2024 
7215.50.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel nesoi, bars and rods, not 
further wkd. than cold-formed or cold-finished, 
not in coils 25% 2024 
7215.90.10 
Iron/nonalloy steel, bars and rods, not cold-
formed, plated or coated with metal 25% 2024 

[Page 48]
48 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7215.90.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, bars and rods, cold-formed, 
plated or coated with metal 25% 2024 
7215.90.50 
Iron/nonalloy steel, bars and rods, further 
worked than cold-formed or cold-finished, 
nesoi 25% 2024 
7216.10.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, U,I or H-sections, not 
further worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or 
extruded, w/height under 80 mm 25% 2024 
7216.21.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, L-sections, not further 
worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, 
w/height under 80 mm 25% 2024 
7216.22.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, T-sections, not further 
worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, 
w/height under 80 mm 25% 2024 
7216.31.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, U-sections, not further 
worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, 
w/height of 80 mm or more 25% 2024 
7216.32.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, I-sections (standard 
beams), not further worked than hot-rolled, hot-
drawn or extruded, w/height 80 mm or more 25% 2024 
7216.33.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, H-sections, not further 
worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, 
w/height 80 mm or more 25% 2024 
7216.40.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, L or T-sections, not further 
worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, 
w/height 80 mm or more 25% 2024 
7216.50.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, angles, shapes & sections 
nesoi, not further worked than hot-rolled, hot-
drawn or extruded 25% 2024 
7216.99.00 
Iron/nonalloy steel, angles, shapes & sections 
nesoi, further wkd. than cold-formed or cold-
finished and not from flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7217.10.10 
Iron/nonalloy steel, flat wire, <0.25% carbon, 
not plated or coated, w/thick n/o 0.25 mm 25% 2024 
7217.10.20 
Iron/nonalloy steel, flat wire, <0.25% carbon, 
not plated or coated, w/thick o/0.25mm but n/o 
1.25 mm 25% 2024 
7217.10.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, flat wire, <0.25% carbon, 
not plated or coated, w/thick o/1.25 mm 25% 2024 
7217.10.50 
Iron/nonalloy steel, round wire, <0.25% 
carbon, not plated or coated, w/diameter of 1.5 
mm or more 25% 2024 

[Page 49]
49 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7217.10.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, wire (other than flat or 
round), <0.25% carbon, not plated or coated 25% 2024 
7217.10.70 
Iron/nonalloy steel, flat wire, w/0.25% or more 
carbon, not plated or coated 25% 2024 
7217.10.80 
Iron/nonalloy steel, round wire, w/0.25% or 
more carbon, not plated or coated 25% 2024 
7217.10.90 
Iron/nonalloy steel, wire (other than flat or 
round), w/0.25% or more of carbon, not plated 
or coated 25% 2024 
7217.20.15 
Iron/nonalloy steel, flat wire, plated or coated 
with zinc 25% 2024 
7217.20.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, round wire, <0.25% 
carbon, plated or coated with zinc, w/diameter 
of 1.5 mm or more 25% 2024 
7217.20.45 
Iron/nonalloy steel, round wire, w/0.25% or 
more carbon and/or <1.5mm diam, plated or 
coated with zinc 25% 2024 
7217.20.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, wire (other than flat or 
round), <0.25% carbon, plated or coated with 
zinc 25% 2024 
7217.20.75 
Iron/nonalloy steel, wire (other than flat or 
round), w/0.25% or more of carbon, plated or 
coated with zinc 25% 2024 
7217.30.15 
Iron/nonalloy steel, flat wire, plated or coated 
with base metal other than zinc 25% 2024 
7217.30.30 
Iron/nonalloy steel, round wire, <0.25% 
carbon, plated or coated with base metal other 
than zinc, w/diam. of 1.5 mm or more 25% 2024 
7217.30.60 
Iron/nonalloy steel, wire (other than flat or 
round), <0.25% carbon, plated or coated with 
base metal other than zinc 25% 2024 
7217.30.75 
Iron/nonalloy steel, wire (other than flat or 
round), w/0.25% or more of carbon, plated or 
coated with base metal other than zinc 25% 2024 
7217.90.10 Iron/nonalloy steel, wire, coated with plastics 25% 2024 
7217.90.50 
Iron/nonalloy steel, wire, plated or coated with 
materials other than base metals or plastics 25% 2024 
7218.10.00 Stainless steel, ingots and other primary forms 25% 2024 
7218.91.00 
Stainless steel, semifinished products of 
rectangular (other than square) cross-section 25% 2024 

[Page 50]
50 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7218.99.00 
Stainless steel, semifinished products, other 
than of rectangular (other than square) cross-
section 25% 2024 
7219.11.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, in coils, w/thickness o/10 mm 25% 2024 
7219.12.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, in coils, w/thick. 4.75 mm or 
more but n/o 10 mm 25% 2024 
7219.13.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, in coils, w/thick. 3 mm or more 
but less than 4.75 mm 25% 2024 
7219.14.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, in coils, w/thickness less than 3 
mm 25% 2024 
7219.21.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, not in coils, w/thickness o/10 
mm 25% 2024 
7219.22.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, not in coils, w/thick. 4.75 mm 
or more but n/o 10 mm 25% 2024 
7219.23.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, not in coils, w/thick. 3 mm or 
more but less than 4.75 mm 25% 2024 
7219.24.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, not in coils, w/thickness less 
than 3 mm 25% 2024 
7219.31.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled flat-
rolled products, w/thickness of 4.75 mm or 
more 25% 2024 
7219.32.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled flat-
rolled products, w/thickness of 3 mm or more 
but less than 4.75 mm 25% 2024 
7219.33.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled flat-
rolled products, w/thickness o/1 mm but less 
than 3 mm 25% 2024 
7219.34.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled flat-
rolled products, w/thickness of 0.5 mm or more 
but n/o 1 mm 25% 2024 
7219.35.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled flat-
rolled products, w/thickness of less than 0.5 
mm 25% 2024 

[Page 51]
51 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7219.90.00 
Stainless steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled 
products, nesoi, further worked than cold-rolled 25% 2024 
7220.12.10 
Stainless steel, width 300m+ but less 
th/600mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled products, 
w/thickness of less than 4.75 mm 25% 2024 
7220.12.50 
Stainless steel, width less th/300mm, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products, w/thickness of less than 
4.75 mm 25% 2024 
7220.20.10 
Stainless steel, width 300+ but less th/600mm, 
cold-rolled flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7220.20.60 
Stainless steel, width less th/300mm, cold-
rolled flat-rolled products, w/thickness o/1.25 
mm 25% 2024 
7220.20.70 
Stainless steel, width less th/300mm, cold-
rolled flat-rolled products, w/ thickness of 0.25 
mm but n/o 1.25 mm 25% 2024 
7220.20.80 
Stainless razor blade steel, width less 
th/300mm, cold-rolled flat-rolled, w/thickness 
n/o 0.25 mm 25% 2024 
7220.90.00 
Stainless steel, width less th/600mm, flat-rolled 
products further worked than cold-rolled 25% 2024 
7221.00.00 
Stainless steel, bars and rods in irregularly 
wound coils, hot-rolled 25% 2024 
7222.11.00 
Stainless steel, bars and rods, hot-rolled, hot-
drawn or extruded, of circular cross-section 25% 2024 
7222.19.00 
Stainless steel, bars and rods, hot-rolled, hot-
drawn or extruded, other than of circular cross-
section 25% 2024 
7222.20.00 
Stainless steel, bars and rods, not further 
worked than cold-formed or cold-finished, 
nesoi 25% 2024 
7222.30.00 
Stainless steel, bars and rods, further worked 
than cold-formed or cold-finished, nesoi 25% 2024 
7222.40.30 
Stainless steel, angles, shapes & sections, hot-
rolled, not drilled/punched or otherwise 
advanced 25% 2024 
7222.40.60 
Stainless steel, angles, shapes & sections, other 
than hot-rolled and not drilled/punched or 
otherwise advanced 25% 2024 
7223.00.10 Stainless steel, round wire 25% 2024 
7223.00.50 Stainless steel, flat wire 25% 2024 

[Page 52]
52 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7223.00.90 
Stainless steel, wire (other than round or flat 
wire) 25% 2024 
7224.10.00 
Alloy (o/than stainless) steel, ingots and other 
primary forms 25% 2024 
7224.90.00 
Alloy (o/than stainless) steel, semifinished 
products 25% 2024 
7225.11.00 
Alloy silicon electrical steel (grain-oriented), 
width 600mm+, flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7225.19.00 
Alloy silicon electrical steel (other than grain-
oriented), width 600mm+, flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7225.30.11 
Alloy tool steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, in coils, w/thick. of 4.75 mm or 
more 25% 2024 
7225.30.30 
Alloy (o/th stainless, silicon elect., hi-speed, or 
tool) steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, in coils, w/thick 4.75mm+ 25% 2024 
7225.30.51 
Alloy tool steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, in coils, w/thick. of less than 
4.75 mm 25% 2024 
7225.30.70 
Alloy (o/th stainless, silicon elect., hi-speed, or 
tool) steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled prod., in coils, w/thick less 4.75mm 25% 2024 
7225.40.11 
Alloy tool steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, n/coils, w/thick. of 4.75 mm or 
more 25% 2024 
7225.40.30 
Alloy (o/th stainless, silicon elect., hi-speed, or 
tool) steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, n/coils, w/thick 4.75mm+ 25% 2024 
7225.40.51 
Alloy tool steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, n/coils, w/thick. of less than 
4.75 mm 25% 2024 
7225.40.70 
Alloy (o/th stainless, silicon elect., hi-speed, or 
tool) steel, width 600mm+, hot-rolled flat-
rolled prod., n/coils, w/thick less 4.75mm 25% 2024 
7225.50.11 
Alloy tool steel, width 600mm+, cold-rolled 
flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7225.50.60 
Alloy steel (o/ than tool), width 600mm+, cold-
rolled flat-rolled products, w/thickness 4.75 
mm or more 25% 2024 
7225.50.70 
Alloy heat-resisting steel, width 600mm+, cold-
rolled flat-rolled products, w/thickness less than 
4.75 mm 25% 2024 

[Page 53]
53 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7225.50.80 
Alloy steel (o/th heat-resisting), width 
600mm+, cold-rolled flat-rolled products, 
w/thickness less than 4.75 mm 25% 2024 
7225.91.00 
Alloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled products 
further worked than cold-rolled, electrolytically 
plated or coated with zinc 25% 2024 
7225.92.00 
Alloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled products 
further worked than cold-rolled, plated or 
coated with zinc (o/than electrolytically) 25% 2024 
7225.99.00 
Alloy steel, width 600mm+, flat-rolled products 
further worked than cold-rolled, nesoi 25% 2024 
7226.11.10 
Alloy silicon electrical steel (grain-oriented), 
width 300mm+ but less th/600mm, flat-rolled 
products 25% 2024 
7226.11.90 
Alloy silicon electrical steel (grain-oriented), 
width less th/300mm, flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7226.19.10 
Alloy silicon electrical steel (o/than grain-
oriented), width 300mm+ but less th/600mm, 
flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7226.19.90 
Alloy silicon electrical steel (o/than grain-
oriented), width less th/300mm, flat-rolled 
products 25% 2024 
7226.20.00 
Alloy high-speed steel, width less th/600mm, 
flat-rolled products of high-speed steel 25% 2024 
7226.91.05 
Alloy chipper knife tool steel (o/than hi-speed), 
width less th/600mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled 
products 25% 2024 
7226.91.15 
Alloy tool steel (o/than hi-speed/chipper knife), 
width 300mm+ but less th/600mm, hot-rolled 
flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7226.91.25 
Alloy tool steel (o/than hi-speed/chipper knife), 
width less th/300mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled 
products 25% 2024 
7226.91.50 
Alloy steel (o/than silicon elect./tool), width 
less th/600mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled products, 
w/thickness of 4.75 mm or more 25% 2024 
7226.91.70 
Alloy steel (o/than silicon elect./tool), width 
300mm+ but less th/600mm, hot-rolled flat-
rolled products, w/thickness less than 4.75 mm 25% 2024 
7226.91.80 
Alloy steel (o/than silicon elect./tool), width 
less th/300mm, hot-rolled flat-rolled products, 
w/thickness less than 4.75 mm 25% 2024 

[Page 54]
54 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7226.92.10 
Alloy tool steel (o/than hi-speed), width 
300mm+ but less th/600mm, cold-rolled flat-
rolled products 25% 2024 
7226.92.30 
Alloy tool steel (o/than hi-speed), width less 
th/300mm, cold-rolled flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7226.92.50 
Alloy steel (o/than tool), width 300mm+ but 
less th/600mm, cold-rolled flat-rolled products 25% 2024 
7226.92.70 
Alloy steel (o/than tool), width less th/300mm, 
cold-rolled flat-rolled products, w/thickness n/o 
0.25 mm 25% 2024 
7226.92.80 
Alloy steel (o/than tool), width less th/300mm, 
cold-rolled flat-rolled products, w/thickness 
o/0.25 mm 25% 2024 
7226.99.01 
Alloy steel, width less than 600mm, flat-rolled 
products further worked than cold-rolled, nesoi 25% 2024 
7227.10.00 
Alloy high-speed steel, bars and rods in 
irregularly wound coils, hmot-rolled 25% 2024 
7227.20.00 
Alloy silico-manganese steel, bars and rods in 
irregularly wound coils, hot-rolled 25% 2024 
7227.90.10 
Alloy tool steel (o/than hi-speed), bars & rods 
in irregular wound coils, hot-rolled, 
n/tempered, treated or partly manufactured 25% 2024 
7227.90.20 
Alloy tool steel (o/than hi-speed), bars and rods 
in irregularly wound coils, hot-rolled, nesoi 25% 2024 
7227.90.60 
Alloy steel (o/than hi-speed/silico-mang./tool) 
steel, bars and rods in irregularly wound coils, 
hot-rolled 25% 2024 
7228.20.10 
Alloy silico-manganese steel, bars and rods, not 
cold-formed, o/than hot-rolled and in 
irregularly wound coils 25% 2024 
7228.20.50 
Alloy silico-manganese steel, bars and rods, 
cold formed, o/than hot-rolled and in 
irregularly wound coils 25% 2024 
7228.30.40 
Alloy chipper knife tool steel, bars and rods, 
not cold-formed & not further worked than hot-
rolled, hot-drawn or extruded 25% 2024 
7228.30.60 
Alloy tool steel (o/than ball-bearing/chipper 
knife), bars and rods, not further worked than 
hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded 25% 2024 
7228.30.80 
Alloy steel (o/than hi-speed, silico-mang./tool), 
bars and rods, not further worked than hot-
rolled, hot-drawn or extruded 25% 2024 

[Page 55]
55 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7228.40.00 
Alloy steel, bars and rods, not further worked 
than forged 25% 2024 
7228.50.10 
Alloy tool steel (o/than hi-speed), bars and 
rods, not further worked than cold-formed or 
cold-finished 25% 2024 
7228.50.50 
Alloy steel (o/than tool), bars and rods, not 
further worked than cold-formed or cold-
finished 25% 2024 
7228.60.10 
Alloy tool steel (o/than hi-speed), bars and 
rods, further worked than hot-rolled, forged, 
cold-formed or cold-finished 25% 2024 
7228.60.60 
Alloy steel (o/than tool), bars and rods, further 
worked than hot-rolled, forged but not cold-
formed 25% 2024 
7228.60.80 
Alloy steel (o/than tool), bars and rods, cold-
formed 25% 2024 
7228.70.30 
Alloy steel, angles, shapes and sections, hot-
rolled & not drilled/not punched and not 
otherwise advanced 25% 2024 
7228.70.60 
Alloy steel, angles, shapes and sections, o/than 
hot-rolled & not drilled/punced and not 
otherwise advanced 25% 2024 
7229.20.00 Alloy silico-manganese steel, wire 25% 2024 
7229.90.10 
Alloy steel (o/than hi-speed/silico-mang.), flat 
wire 25% 2024 
7229.90.50 
Alloy steel (o/than hi-speed/silico-mang.), 
round wire 25% 2024 
7229.90.90 
Alloy steel (o/than hi-speed/silico-mang.), wire 
(o/than flat or round wire) 25% 2024 
7301.10.00 
Iron or steel sheet piling, whether or not drilled, 
punched or made from assembled elements 25% 2024 
7302.10.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, rails for railway or 
tramway tracks 25% 2024 
7302.10.50 Alloy steel, rails for railway or tramway tracks 25% 2024 
7302.40.00 
Iron or steel, fish plates and sole plates for 
jointing or fixing rails 25% 2024 
7302.90.10 
Sleepers (cross-ties) for railway or tramway 
track construction of iron or steel 25% 2024 
7302.90.90 
Railway or tramway track construction material 
and other materials specialized for joing or 
fixing rails, of iron or steel, nesoi 25% 2024 

[Page 56]
56 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7304.11.00 
Stainless steel, seamless line pipe used for oil 
or gas pipelines 25% 2024 
7304.19.10 
Iron (o/than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless 
line pipe used for oil and gas pipelines 25% 2024 
7304.19.50 
Alloy (other than stainless) steel, seamless line 
pipe used for oil or gas pipelines 25% 2024 
7304.22.00 
Stainless steel, seamless drill pipe, of a kind 
used in drilling for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.23.30 
Iron (o/than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless 
drill pipe, of a kind used in drilling for oil or 
gas 25% 2024 
7304.23.60 
Alloy (other than stainless) steel, seamless drill 
pipe, of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.24.30 
Stainless steel, seamless casing pipe, threaded 
or coupled, of a kind used in drilling for oil or 
gas 25% 2024 
7304.24.40 
Stainless steel, seamless casing pipe, not 
threaded or coupled, of a kind used in drilling 
for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.24.60 
Stainless steel, seamless tubing, of a kind used 
in drilling for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.29.10 
Iron (o/than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless 
casing pipe, threaded or coupled, of a kind used 
in drilling for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.29.20 
Iron (o/than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless 
casing pipe, not threaded or coupled, of a kind 
used in drilling for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.29.31 
Alloy (other than stainless) steel, seamless 
casing pipe, threaded or coupled, of a kind used 
in drilling for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.29.41 
Alloy (other than stainless) steel, seamless 
casing pipe, not threaded or coupled, of a kind 
used in drilling for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.29.50 
Iron (o/than cast) or nonalloy, seamless tubing, 
of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.29.61 
Alloy (other than stainless) steel, seamless 
tubing, of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas 25% 2024 
7304.31.30 
Iron (o/than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless, 
cold-drawn or cold-rolled, hollow bars 
w/circular cross section 25% 2024 

[Page 57]
57 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7304.31.60 
Iron (o/than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless, 
cold-drawn or cold-rolled, tubes, pipes & 
hollow profiles, w/circular cross section, nesoi 25% 2024 
7304.39.00 
Iron (o/than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless, 
not cold-drawn or cold-rolled, tubes, pipes and 
hollow prof., w/circular cross sect., nesoi 25% 2024 
7304.49.00 
Stainless steel, seamless, not cold-drawn/cold-
rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, 
w/circular cross section 25% 2024 
7304.51.10 
Alloy steel (o/than stainless), seamless, cold-
drawn/cold-rolled, tubes, pipes, etc., w/circ. 
cross sect., for mfr of ball/roller bearings 25% 2024 
7304.51.50 
Alloy steel (o/than stainless), seamless, cold-
drawn/cold-rolled, tubes, pipes and hollow 
profiles, w/circular cross section, nesoi 25% 2024 
7304.59.10 
Alloy steel (o/than stainless), seamless, n/cold-
drawn/cold-rolled, tubes, pipes, etc. w/circ. 
cross sect., for mfr ball/roller bearings 25% 2024 
7304.59.20 
Alloy steel (o/than stainless), seamless, n/cold-
drawn/cold-rolled, tubes, pipes, etc. w/circ. 
cross sect., for boilers, heaters, etc 25% 2024 
7304.59.60 
Heat-resisting alloy steel (o/than stainless), 
seamless, n/cold-drawn/cold-rolled, tubes, 
pipes, etc., w/circ. cross sect., nesoi 25% 2024 
7304.59.80 
Alloy steel (o/than heat-resist or stainless), 
seamless, n/cold-drawn/cold-rolled, tubes, 
pipes and hollow prof., w/circ. cross sect., nesoi 25% 2024 
7304.90.10 
Iron (o/than cast) or nonalloy steel, seamless, 
tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, o/than circ. 
cross sect., w/wall thickness of 4 mm or more 25% 2024 
7304.90.70 
Alloy steel (o/than stainless), seamless, tubes, 
pipes and hollow profiles, o/than circ. cross 
sect., w/wall thickness less than 4 mm 25% 2024 
7305.11.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross 
sect. & ext. diam o/406.4mm, line pipe, long. 
submerg. arc weld., used for oil/gas 25% 2024 
7305.11.50 
Alloy steel, seamed, circ. w/cross sect. & ext. 
diam o/406.4mm, line pipe, long. submerg. arc 
weld., used for oil/gas pipelines 25% 2024 
7305.12.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross 
sect. & ext. diam o/406.4mm, line pipe, long. 
welded nesoi, used for oil/gas 25% 2024 

[Page 58]
58 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7305.12.50 
Alloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross sect. & ext. 
diam o/406.4mm, line pipe, long. welded nesoi, 
used for oil/gas pipelines 25% 2024 
7305.19.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross 
sect.& ext. diam o/406.4mm, line pipe, not 
long. welded, used for oil/gas 25% 2024 
7305.19.50 
Alloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross sect. & ext. 
diam o/406.4mm, line pipe, not long. welded, 
used for oil/gas pipelines 25% 2024 
7305.20.20 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross 
sect. & ext. diam. o/406.4mm, casing pipe, 
threaded/coupled, of kind for drilling for oil/gas 25% 2024 
7305.20.40 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross 
sect. & ext. diam. o/406.4mm, casing pipe, 
n/threaded/coupled, of kind for drill. for oil/gas 25% 2024 
7305.20.60 
Alloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross sect. & ext. 
diam. o/406.4mm, casing pipe, 
threaded/coupled, of kind for drilling for oil/gas 25% 2024 
7305.20.80 
Alloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross sect. & ext. 
diam. o/406.4mm, casing pipe, 
n/threaded/coupled, of kind for drilling for 
oil/gas 25% 2024 
7305.31.20 
Steel, long. welded, w/circ. cross sect & ext. 
diam o/406.4mm, tapered pipes and tubes 
principally used as pts of illuminating arts. 25% 2024 
7305.31.40 
Iron or nonalloy steel, long. welded, w/circ. 
cross sect. & ext. diam. o/406.4mm, tubes and 
pipes, o/th used in oil/gas drill.etc 25% 2024 
7305.31.60 
Alloy steel, long. welded, w/circ. cross sect. & 
ext. diam. o/406.4mm, tubes and pipes, o/than 
used in oil/gas drill. or pipelines 25% 2024 
7305.39.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, weld. o/than long. weld., 
w/circ. x-sect. & ext. diam. o/406.4mm, tubes 
and pipes, o/th used in oil/gas drill.etc 25% 2024 
7305.39.50 
Alloy steel, weld. o/than long. weld., w/circ. x-
sect. & ext. diam. o/406.4mm, tubes and pipes, 
o/than used in oil/gas drill. or pipelines 25% 2024 
7305.90.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross 
sect. & ext. diam. o/406.4mm, not welded, 
tubes and pipes, o/th used in oil/gas drill.etc 25% 2024 

[Page 59]
59 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7305.90.50 
Alloy steel, seamed, w/circ. cross sect. & ext. 
diam. o/406.4mm, not welded, tubes and pipes, 
o/than used in oil/gas drill. or pipelines 25% 2024 
7306.11.00 
Welded stainless steel, w/ext. diam 406.4mm or 
less or o/than circ. x-sect, line pipe of a kind 
used for oil and gas pipelines 25% 2024 
7306.19.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/ext. diam. 
406.4mm or less or o/than circ. x-sect, line pipe 
of a kind used for oil and gas pipelines 25% 2024 
7306.19.51 
Alloy steel, seamed (o/than welded stainless 
steel), w/ext. diam 406.4mm or less or o/than 
circ. x-sect, line pipe of a kind used for oil an 25% 2024 
7306.21.30 
Welded stainless steel, w/ext. diam 406.4mm or 
less or o/than circ. x-sect, threaded/coupled, 
casing of kind used in drilling for oil/gas 25% 2024 
7306.21.40 
Welded stainless steel, w/ext. diam 406.4mm or 
less or o/than circ. x-sect, n/threaded/coupled, 
casing of kind used in drilling for oil/gas 25% 2024 
7306.21.80 
Welded stainless steel, w/ext. diam 406.4mm or 
less or o/than circ. x-sect, tubing of a kind used 
for drilling for oil/gas 25% 2024 
7306.29.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/ext. diam 
406.4mm or less or o/than circ. x-sect, 
threaded/coupled, casing of kind used in drill. 
oil/gas 25% 2024 
7306.29.20 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/ext. diam 
406.4mm or less or o/than circ. x-sect, 
n/threaded/coupled, casing kind used drill for 
oil/gas 25% 2024 
7306.29.31 
Alloy steel, seamed (o/than welded stainless 
steel), w/ext. diam 406.4mm or less or o/than 
circ. x-sect, threaded/coupled, casing of kind us 25% 2024 
7306.29.41 
Alloy steel, seamed (o/than welded stainless 
steel), w/ext. diam 406.4mm or less or o/than 
circ. x-sect, n/threaded/coupled, casing of kind 25% 2024 
7306.29.60 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed, w/ext. diam. 
406.4mm or less or o/than circ. x-sect, tubing 
of a kind used for drilling for oil/gas 25% 2024 
7306.29.81 
Alloy steel, seamed (o/than welded stainless 
steel), w/ext. diam 406.4mm or less or o/than 
circ. x-sect, tubing of a kind used for drilling 25% 2024 

[Page 60]
60 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7306.30.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, w/circ. x-sect & 
ext. diam. 406.4mm or less, tubes, pipes, 
hollow profiles, w/wall thick. less than 1.65 
mm 25% 2024 
7306.30.30 
Nonalloy steel, welded, w/circ. x-sect & ext. 
diam. 406.4mm or less, tapered pipes & tubes, 
w/wall thick. of 1.65 mm+, pts. of illum. arts. 25% 2024 
7306.30.50 
Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, w/circ. x-sect & 
ext. diam. 406.4mm or less, pipes, tubes & holl. 
prof., w/wall thick. of 1.65 mm or more 25% 2024 
7306.40.10 
Stainless steel, welded, w/circ. x-sect & ext. 
diam. 406.4mm or less, tubes, pipes, hollow 
profiles, w/wall thick. less than 1.65 mm 25% 2024 
7306.40.50 
Stainless steel, welded, w/circ. x-sect & ext. 
diam. 406.4mm or less, tubes, pipes, hollow 
profiles, w/wall thick. of 1.65 mm or more 25% 2024 
7306.50.10 
Alloy steel (o/stainless), welded, w/circ. x-sect 
& ext. diam. 406.4mm or less, tubes, pipes, 
hollow prof., w/wall thick. less th/1.65 mm 25% 2024 
7306.50.30 
Alloy steel (o/stainless), welded, w/circ. x-sect 
& ext. diam. 406.4mm or less, tapered pipes & 
tubes, w/wall thick. of 1.65 mm+, pts. illum 25% 2024 
7306.50.50 
Alloy steel (o/stainless), welded, w/circ. x-sect 
& ext. diam. 406.4mm or less, tubes, pipes, 
hollow prof., w/wall thick. of 1.65 mm+ 25% 2024 
7306.61.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, w/square or 
rectangular x-sect, tubes, pipes and hollow 
profiles, w/wall thickness of 4 mm or more 25% 2024 
7306.61.30 
Alloy steel, welded, w/square or rectangular x-
sect, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, w/wall 
thickness of 4 mm or more 25% 2024 
7306.61.50 
Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, w/square or 
rectangular x-sect, tubes, pipes and hollow 
profiles, w/wall thickness less than 4 mm 25% 2024 
7306.61.70 
Alloy steel, welded, w/square or rectangular x-
sect, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, w/wall 
thickness less than 4 mm 25% 2024 
7306.69.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, welded, w/other non-
circ. x-sect, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, 
w/wall thickness of 4 mm or more 25% 2024 

[Page 61]
61 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7306.69.30 
Alloy steel, welded, w/other non-circ. x-sect, 
tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, w/wall 
thickness of 4 mm or more 25% 2024 
7306.69.70 
Alloy steel, welded, w/other non-circ. x-sect, 
tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, w/wall 
thickness less than 4 mm 25% 2024 
7306.90.10 
Iron or nonalloy steel, seamed o/welded, 
w/non-circ. x-sect. or circ. x-sect. w/ext. diam. 
406.4mm or less, tubes, pipes & hollow profiles 25% 2024 
7306.90.50 
Alloy steel, seamed o/than welded, w/non-circ. 
x-sect or circ. x-sect w/ext. diam. 406.4mm or 
less, tubes, pipes and hollow profiles 25% 2024 
7601.10.30 
Aluminum (o/than alloy), unwrought, in coils, 
w/uniform x-section throughout length & 
w/least cross-sectional dimension n/o 9.5 mm 25% 2024 
7601.10.60 Aluminum (o/than alloy), unwrought nesoi 25% 2024 
7601.20.30 
Aluminum alloys, unwrought, in coils, 
w/uniform x-section throughout length & 
w/least cross-sectional dimension n/o 9.5 mm 25% 2024 
7601.20.60 
Aluminum alloys, w/25% or more by weight of 
silicon, unwrought nesoi 25% 2024 
7601.20.90 Aluminum alloys nesoi, unwrought nesoi 25% 2024 
7604.10.10 Aluminum (o/than alloy), profiles 25% 2024 
7604.10.30 
Aluminum (o/than alloy), bar and rods, with a 
round cross section 25% 2024 
7604.10.50 
Aluminum (o/than alloy), bar and rods, other 
than with a round cross section 25% 2024 
7604.21.00 Aluminum alloy, hollow profiles 25% 2024 
7604.29.10 
Aluminum alloy, profiles (o/than hollow 
profiles) 25% 2024 
7604.29.30 
Aluminum alloy, bars and rods, having a round 
cross section 25% 2024 
7604.29.50 
Aluminum alloy, bars and rods, other than with 
a round cross section 25% 2024 
7605.11.00 
Aluminum (o/than alloy), wire, with a 
maximum cross-sectional dimension over 7 
mm 25% 2024 
7605.19.00 
Aluminum (o/than alloy), wire, with a 
maximum cross-sectional dimension of 7 mm 
or less 25% 2024 
7605.21.00 
Aluminum alloy, wire, with a maximum cross-
sectional dimension over 7 mm 25% 2024 

[Page 62]
62 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
7605.29.00 
Aluminum alloy, wire, with a maximum cross-
sectional dimension of 7 mm or less 25% 2024 
7606.11.30 
Aluminum (o/than alloy), plates/sheets/strip, 
w/thick. o/0.2mm, rectangular (incl. sq), not 
clad 25% 2024 
7606.11.60 
Aluminum (o/than alloy), plates/sheets/strip, 
w/thick. o/0.2mm, rectangular (incl. sq), clad 25% 2024 
7606.12.30 
Aluminum alloy, plates/sheets/strip, w/thick. 
o/0.2mm, rectangular (incl. sq), not clad 25% 2024 
7606.12.60 
Aluminum alloy, plates/sheets/strip, w/thick. 
o/0.2mm, rectangular (incl. sq), clad 25% 2024 
7606.91.30 
Aluminum (o/than alloy), plates/sheets/strip, 
w/thick. o/0.2mm, o/than rectangular (incl. sq), 
not clad 25% 2024 
7606.91.60 
Aluminum (o/than alloy), plates/sheets/strip, 
w/thick. o/0.2mm, o/than rectangular (incl. sq), 
clad 25% 2024 
7606.92.30 
Aluminum alloy, plates/sheets/st 
rip, w/thick. o/0.2mm, o/than rectangular (incl. 
sq), not clad 25% 2024 
7606.92.60 
Aluminum alloy, plates/sheets/strip, w/thick. 
o/0.2mm, o/than rectangular (incl. sq), clad 25% 2024 
7607.11.30 
Aluminum, foil, w/thickness n/o 0.01 mm, 
rolled but not further worked, not backed 25% 2024 
7607.11.60 
Aluminum, foil, w/thickness over 0.01 mm but 
n/o 0.15 mm, rolled but not further worked, not 
backed 25% 2024 
7607.11.90 
Aluminum, foil, w/thickness over 0.15 mm but 
n/o 0.2 mm, rolled but not further worked, not 
backed 25% 2024 
7607.19.60 
Aluminum, foil nesoi, w/thickness o/0.15mm 
but n/o 0.2 mm or 0.15mm or less & not cut to 
shape, not rolled, not backed, nesoi 25% 2024 
7607.20.10 
Aluminum, foil, w/thickness n/o 0.2 mm, 
backed, covered or decorated with a character, 
design, fancy effect or pattern 25% 2024 
7608.10.00 Aluminum (o/than alloy), tubes and pipes 25% 2024 
7608.20.00 Aluminum alloy, tubes and pipes 25% 2024 
7609.00.00 Aluminum, fittings for tubes and pipes 25% 2024 
 
 
 

[Page 63]
63 
Syringes and Needles 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description Rate Timing 
9018.31.00 
Syringes, with or without their needles; parts 
and accessories thereof; except enteral syringes 
provided for in heading 9903.91.10, entered 
before January 1, 2026 (described in statistical 
reporting number 9018.31.0080) 100% 2024 
9018.32.00 
Tubular metal needles and needles for sutures, 
used in medical, surgical, dental or veterinary 
sciences, and parts and accessories thereof 100% 2024 
 
ANNEX B - Exclusions for Solar Manufacturing Equipment 
 
 
Exclusion Product Description 
 
Silicon growth furnaces, including Czochralski crystal growth furnaces, designed 
for growing monocrystalline silicon ingots (boules) of a mass exceeding 700 kg, for 
use in solar wafer manufacturing (described in statistical reporting number 
8486.10.0000). 
Band saws designed for cutting or slicing cylindrical monocrystalline silicon ingots 
(boules) of an initial mass exceeding 400 kg into square or rectangular ingots 
(boules), for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described in statistical reporting 
number 8486.10.0000). 
Machines designed to align and adhere square or rectangular monocrystalline silicon 
ingots (boules) of an initial mass exceeding 200 kg to plastic support boards on 
metal mounting plates to provide support during diamond wire sawing, for use in 
solar wafer manufacturing (described in statistical reporting number 8486.10.0000). 
Diamond wire saws designed for cutting or slicing square or rectangular 
monocrystalline silicon ingots (boules) of an initial mass exceeding 400 kg into 
solar wafers of a thickness not exceeding 200 micrometers (described in statistical 
reporting number 8486.10.0000). 
Wire guide roller machines, presented with diamond wire saws designed for slicing 
square or rectangular monocrystalline silicon ingots (boules) of an initial mass 
exceeding 400 kg into solar wafers of a thickness not exceeding 200 micrometers, 
all of the foregoing for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described in statistical 
reporting number 8486.10.0000). 
Coolant fluid recycling machines, presented with diamond wire saws designed for 
slicing square or rectangular monocrystalline silicon ingots (boules) of an initial 
mass exceeding 400 kg into solar wafers of a thickness not exceeding 200 
micrometers, all of the foregoing for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described in 
statistical reporting number 8486.10.0000). 
Degumming machines designed to remove adhesives from solar wafers (described 
in statistical reporting number 8486.10.0000). 

[Page 64]
64 
 
Exclusion Product Description 
 
Texturing, etching, polishing, and cleaning machines designed to prepare, repair, 
clean, etch, polish or texture the solar wafer substrate, whether or not integrated with 
automation equipment for transferring solar wafers from one process station to the 
next, all the foregoing for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described in statistical 
reporting number 8486.20.0000). 
Thermal diffusion quartz-tube furnaces, designed to diffuse dopant impurities into 
square or rectangular silicon wafers, whether or not integrated with automation 
equipment for transferring solar wafers from one process station to the next or boat 
loading or unloading machines, all the foregoing for use in solar cell manufacturing 
(described in statistical reporting number 8486.20.0000). 
Plasma-enhanced or low-pressure chemical vapor deposition machines designed to 
deposit amorphous or nanocrystalline layers on one or both surfaces of a solar 
wafer, whether or not integrated with automation equipment for transferring solar 
wafers from one process station to the next, all the foregoing for use in solar cell 
manufacturing (described in statistical reporting number 8486.20.0000). 
Physical vapor deposition (PVD) machines, designed to deposit a thin film of 
transparent conducting oxide on one or both surfaces of a solar wafer, whether or 
not integrated with automation equipment for transferring solar wafers from one 
process station to the next, all the foregoing for use in solar cell manufacturing 
(described in statistical reporting number 8486.20.0000). 
Screen printing line machines, including sintering furnaces for printing conducting 
contacts on both surfaces of a solar wafer, whether or not integrated with automation 
equipment for transferring solar wafers from one process station to the next, and 
whether or not integrated with equipment for solar cell testing, all the foregoing for 
use in solar cell manufacturing (described in statistical reporting number 
8486.20.0000). 
Machines designed for transporting polysilicon material to growth furnaces and 
machines designed for transporting monocrystalline ingots (boules) and wafers 
throughout the solar wafer manufacturing process, including machines for loading 
or unloading solar wafers during the diamond wire slicing process (described in 
statistical reporting number 8486.40.0030). 
Machines designed for lifting, handling, loading, or unloading of solar wafers of a 
thickness not exceeding 200 micrometers, for use in solar wafer manufacturing 
(described in statistical reporting number 8486.40.0030). 
 
ANNEX C – Changes to Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States 
 
1. Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on 
September 27, 2024, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule 
of the United States (HTSUS) is modified by inserting the following new headings 
9903.91.01, 9903.91.02 and 9903.91.03 in numerical sequence, with the material in 
the new headings inserted in the columns of the HTSUS labeled 

[Page 65]
65 
“Heading/Subheading”, “Article Description”, “Rates of Duty 1-General”, “Rates of 
Duty 1-Special” and “Rates of Duty 2”, respectively: 
Heading/ 
Subheading Article Description 
Rates of Duty 
1 2 
General Special 
“9903.91.01 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective with respect to entries on or after 
September 27, 2024, articles the product of 
China, as provided for in subdivision (b) of 
U.S. note 31 to this subchapter . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . .  
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
+ 25% 
  
9903.91.02 Effective with respect to entries on or after 
September 27, 2024, articles the product of 
China, as provided for in subdivision (c) of 
U.S. note 31 to this subchapter . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . .  
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
+ 50% 
  
9903.91.03 Except as provided in heading 9903.91.10, 
effective with respect to entries on or after 
September 27, 2024, articles the product of 
China, as provided for in subdivision (d) of 
U.S. note 31 to this subchapter . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . .  
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
+ 100%”. 
  
 
2. Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 
1, 2025, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by inserting the 
following new headings 9903.91.04 and 9903.91.05 in numerical sequence, with the 
material in the new heading inserted in the columns of the HTSUS labeled 
“Heading/Subheading”, “Article Description”, “Rates of Duty 1-General”, “Rates of 
Duty 1-Special” and “Rates of Duty 2”, respectively: 
 
 
 
 

[Page 66]
66 
Heading/ 
Subheading Article Description 
Rates of Duty 
1 2 
General Special 
“9903.91.04 
 
Effective with respect to entries on or after 
January 1, 2025, and before January 1, 2026, 
articles the product of China, as provided for in 
subdivision (e) of U.S. note 31 to this 
subchapter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided 
in the 
applicable 
subheadin
g + 25% 
 
  
9903.91.05 Effective with respect to entries on or after 
January 1, 2025, articles the product of China, 
as provided for in subdivision (f) of U.S. note 
31 to this subchapter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . 
The duty 
provided 
in the 
applicable 
subheadin
g + 50%”. 
 
  
 
3. Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 
1, 2026, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by inserting the 
following new headings 9903.91.06, 9903.91.07, and 9903.91.08 in numerical 
sequence, with the material in the new heading inserted in the columns of the HTSUS 
labeled “Heading/Subheading”, “Article Description”, “Rates of Duty 1-General”, 
“Rates of Duty 1-Special” and “Rates of Duty 2”, respectively: 
Heading/ 
Subheading Article Description 
Rates of Duty 
1 2 
General Special 
“9903.91.06 Effective with respect to entries on or after 
January 1, 2026, articles the product of 
China, as provided for in subdivision (g) of 
U.S. note 31 to this subchapter . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
+ 25% 
 
  
9903.91.07 Effective with respect to entries on or after 
January 1, 2026, articles the product of 
China, as provided for in subdivision (h) of 
 
 
 
  

[Page 67]
67 
U.S. note 31 to this subchapter . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
+ 50% 
9903.91.08 Effective with respect to entries on or after 
January 1, 2026, articles the product of 
China, as provided for in subdivision (i) of 
U.S. note 31 to this subchapter. . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
+ 100%”. 
  
 
4. Effective on September 27, 2024, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is 
modified by inserting the following new U.S. note 31 in numerical sequence: 
“31. (a) As provided in headings 9903.91.01, 9903.91.02, 9903.91.03, 9903.91.04, 
9903.91.05, 9903.91.06, 9903.91.07 and 9903.91.08 and subheading 9903.92.10, products of 
China shall be subject to additional ad valorem rates of duty, as provided for in this note. The 
products of China that are subject to additional ad valorem rates of duty in accordance with 
this note are products of China that are classified in the subheadings, or described in the 
statistical reporting numbers, enumerated in this note.  
 
“Notwithstanding U.S. note 1 to this subchapter, all products of China that are subject to the 
additional ad valorem rate of duty imposed by headings 9903.91.01, 9903.91.02, 9903.91.03, 
9903.91.04, 9903.91.05, 9903.91.06, 9903.91.07 and 9903.91.08 and subheading 9903.92.10, 
shall also be subject to the general rates of duty imposed on products of China classified in 
the subheadings, or described in the statistical reporting numbers, enumerated in this note. 
 
“Products of China that are classified in the subheadings, or described in the statistical 
reporting numbers, enumerated in this note that are eligible for special tariff treatment under 
general note 3(c)(i) to the HTSUS, or that are eligible for temporary duty exemptions or 
reductions under subchapter II to chapter 99, shall be subject to the additional ad valorem 
rate of duty imposed by headings 9903.91.01, 9903.91.02, 9903.91.03, 9903.91.04, 
9903.91.05, 9903.91.06, 9903.91.07 and 9903.91.08 and subheading 9903.92.10.  
 
“The additional duties imposed by headings 9903.91.01, 9903.91.02, 9903.91.03, 
9903.91.04, 9903.91.05, 9903.91.06, 9903.91.07 and 9903.91.08 and subheading 9903.92.10, 
do not apply to goods for which entry is properly claimed under a provision of chapter 98 of 
the HTSUS, except for goods entered under subheadings 9802.00.40, 9802.00.50, and 
9802.00.60, and heading 9802.00.80. For subheadings 9802.00.40, 9802.00.50, and 
9802.00.60, the additional duties apply to the value of repairs, alterations, or processing 
performed abroad, as described in the applicable subheading. For heading 9802.00.80, the 

[Page 68]
68 
additional duties apply to the value of the article less the cost or value of such products of the 
United States, as described in heading 9802.00.80.  
 
“Products of China that are provided for in headings 9903.91.01, 9903.91.02, 9903.91.03, 
9903.91.04, 9903.91.05, 9903.91.06, 9903.91.07 and 9903.91.08 and subheading 9903.92.10 
and classified in one of the subheadings, or described in the statistical reporting numbers, 
enumerated in this note shall continue to be subject to antidumping, countervailing, or other 
duties, fees, exactions and charges that apply to such products, as well as to the additional ad 
valorem rate of duty imposed by headings 9903.91.01, 9903.91.02, 9903.91.03, 9903.91.04, 
9903.91.05, 9903.91.06, 9903.91.07, and 9903.91.08 and subheading 9903.92.10.” 
 
“(b) Heading 9903.91.01 applies to products of China that are classified in the 8-digit 
subheadings, or described in the 10-digit statistical reporting numbers, enumerated in this 
subdivision, effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on September 27, 
2024: 
 
(1) N95 respirators of textiles, described in statistical reporting numbers 
6307.90.9842 or 6307.90.9844 
(2) Respirators of textiles, other than N95 respirators, described in statistical 
reporting number 6307.90.9850 
(3) Face masks of textiles, other than disposable, described in statistical reporting 
number 6307.90.9875 
(4) Lithium-ion batteries of a kind used as the primary source of electrical power for 
electrically powered vehicles of subheadings 8703.40, 8703.50, 8703.60, 8703.70 
or 8703.80, described in statistical reporting number 8507.60.0010 
(5) 2602.00.00 
(6) 2605.00.00 
(7) 2606.00.00 
(8) 2608.00.00 
(9)  2610.00.00 
(10) 2611.00.60 
(11) 2825.90.30 
(12) 2841.80.00 
(13) 2844.41.00 
(14) 2844.42.00 
(15) 2844.43.00 
(16) 2844.44.00 
(17) 2849.90.30 
(18) 7202.60.00 
(19) 7202.93.40 
(20) 7202.93.80 
(21) 7206.10.00 
(22) 7206.90.00 
(23) 7207.11.00 
(24) 7207.12.00 

[Page 69]
69 
(25) 7207.19.00 
(26) 7207.20.00 
(27) 7208.10.15 
(28) 7208.10.30 
(29) 7208.10.60 
(30) 7208.25.30 
(31) 7208.25.60 
(32) 7208.26.00 
(33) 7208.27.00 
(34) 7208.36.00 
(35) 7208.37.00 
(36) 7208.38.00 
(37) 7208.39.00 
(38) 7208.40.30 
(39) 7208.40.60 
(40) 7208.51.00 
(41) 7208.52.00 
(42) 7208.53.00 
(43) 7208.54.00 
(44) 7208.90.00 
(45) 7209.15.00 
(46) 7209.16.00 
(47) 7209.17.00 
(48) 7209.18.15 
(49) 7209.18.25 
(50) 7209.18.60 
(51) 7209.25.00 
(52) 7209.26.00 
(53) 7209.27.00 
(54) 7209.28.00 
(55) 7209.90.00 
(56) 7210.11.00 
(57) 7210.12.00 
(58) 7210.20.00 
(59) 7210.30.00 
(60) 7210.41.00 
(61) 7210.49.00 
(62) 7210.50.00 
(63) 7210.61.00 
(64) 7210.69.00 
(65) 7210.70.30 
(66) 7210.70.60 
(67) 7210.90.10 
(68) 7210.90.60 
(69) 7210.90.90 
(70) 7211.13.00 

[Page 70]
70 
(71) 7211.14.00 
(72) 7211.19.15 
(73) 7211.19.20 
(74) 7211.19.30 
(75) 7211.19.45 
(76) 7211.19.60 
(77) 7211.19.75 
(78) 7211.23.15 
(79) 7211.23.20 
(80) 7211.23.30 
(81) 7211.23.45 
(82) 7211.23.60 
(83) 7211.29.20 
(84) 7211.29.45 
(85) 7211.29.60 
(86) 7211.90.00 
(87) 7212.10.00 
(88) 7212.20.00 
(89) 7212.30.10 
(90) 7212.30.30 
(91) 7212.30.50 
(92) 7212.40.10 
(93) 7212.40.50 
(94) 7212.50.00 
(95) 7212.60.00 
(96) 7213.10.00 
(97) 7213.20.00 
(98) 7213.91.30 
(99) 7213.91.45 
(100) 7213.91.60 
(101) 7213.99.00 
(102) 7214.20.00 
(103) 7214.30.00 
(104) 7214.91.00 
(105) 7214.99.00 
(106) 7215.10.00 
(107) 7215.50.00 
(108) 7215.90.10 
(109) 7215.90.30 
(110) 7215.90.50 
(111) 7216.10.00 
(112) 7216.21.00 
(113) 7216.22.00 
(114) 7216.31.00 
(115) 7216.32.00 
(116) 7216.33.00 

[Page 71]
71 
(117) 7216.40.00 
(118) 7216.50.00 
(119) 7216.99.00 
(120) 7217.10.10 
(121) 7217.10.20 
(122) 7217.10.30 
(123) 7217.10.50 
(124) 7217.10.60 
(125) 7217.10.70 
(126) 7217.10.80 
(127) 7217.10.90 
(128) 7217.20.15 
(129) 7217.20.30 
(130) 7217.20.45 
(131) 7217.20.60 
(132) 7217.20.75 
(133) 7217.30.15 
(134) 7217.30.30 
(135) 7217.30.60 
(136) 7217.30.75 
(137) 7217.90.10 
(138) 7217.90.50 
(139) 7218.10.00 
(140) 7218.91.00 
(141) 7218.99.00 
(142) 7219.11.00 
(143) 7219.12.00 
(144) 7219.13.00 
(145) 7219.14.00 
(146) 7219.21.00 
(147) 7219.22.00 
(148) 7219.23.00 
(149) 7219.24.00 
(150) 7219.31.00 
(151) 7219.32.00 
(152) 7219.33.00 
(153) 7219.34.00 
(154) 7219.35.00 
(155) 7219.90.00 
(156) 7220.12.10 
(157) 7220.12.50 
(158) 7220.20.10 
(159) 7220.20.60 
(160) 7220.20.70 
(161) 7220.20.80 
(162) 7220.90.00 

[Page 72]
72 
(163) 7221.00.00 
(164) 7222.11.00 
(165) 7222.19.00 
(166) 7222.20.00 
(167) 7222.30.00 
(168) 7222.40.30 
(169) 7222.40.60 
(170) 7223.00.10 
(171) 7223.00.50 
(172) 7223.00.90 
(173) 7224.10.00 
(174) 7224.90.00 
(175) 7225.11.00 
(176) 7225.19.00 
(177) 7225.30.11 
(178) 7225.30.30 
(179) 7225.30.51 
(180) 7225.30.70 
(181) 7225.40.11 
(182) 7225.40.30 
(183) 7225.40.51 
(184) 7225.40.70 
(185) 7225.50.11 
(186) 7225.50.60 
(187) 7225.50.70 
(188) 7225.50.80 
(189) 7225.91.00 
(190) 7225.92.00 
(191) 7225.99.00 
(192) 7226.11.10 
(193) 7226.11.90 
(194) 7226.19.10 
(195) 7226.19.90 
(196) 7226.20.00 
(197) 7226.91.05 
(198) 7226.91.15 
(199) 7226.91.25 
(200) 7226.91.50 
(201) 7226.91.70 
(202) 7226.91.80 
(203) 7226.92.10 
(204) 7226.92.30 
(205) 7226.92.50 
(206) 7226.92.70 
(207) 7226.92.80 
(208) 7226.99.01 

[Page 73]
73 
(209) 7227.10.00 
(210) 7227.20.00 
(211) 7227.90.10 
(212) 7227.90.20 
(213) 7227.90.60 
(214) 7228.20.10 
(215) 7228.20.50 
(216) 7228.30.40 
(217) 7228.30.60 
(218) 7228.30.80 
(219) 7228.40.00 
(220) 7228.50.10 
(221) 7228.50.50 
(222) 7228.60.10 
(223) 7228.60.60 
(224) 7228.60.80 
(225) 7228.70.30 
(226) 7228.70.60 
(227) 7229.20.00 
(228) 7229.90.10 
(229) 7229.90.50 
(230) 7229.90.90 
(231) 7301.10.00 
(232) 7302.10.10 
(233) 7302.10.50 
(234) 7302.40.00 
(235) 7302.90.10 
(236) 7302.90.90 
(237) 7304.11.00 
(238) 7304.19.10 
(239) 7304.19.50 
(240) 7304.22.00 
(241) 7304.23.30 
(242) 7304.23.60 
(243) 7304.24.30 
(244) 7304.24.40 
(245) 7304.24.60 
(246) 7304.29.10 
(247) 7304.29.20 
(248) 7304.29.31 
(249) 7304.29.41 
(250) 7304.29.50 
(251) 7304.29.61 
(252) 7304.31.30 
(253) 7304.31.60 
(254) 7304.39.00 

[Page 74]
74 
(255) 7304.49.00 
(256) 7304.51.10 
(257) 7304.51.50 
(258) 7304.59.10 
(259) 7304.59.20 
(260) 7304.59.60 
(261) 7304.59.80 
(262) 7304.90.10 
(263) 7304.90.70 
(264) 7305.11.10 
(265) 7305.11.50 
(266) 7305.12.10 
(267) 7305.12.50 
(268) 7305.19.10 
(269) 7305.19.50 
(270) 7305.20.20 
(271) 7305.20.40 
(272) 7305.20.60 
(273) 7305.20.80 
(274) 7305.31.20 
(275) 7305.31.40 
(276) 7305.31.60 
(277) 7305.39.10 
(278) 7305.39.50 
(279) 7305.90.10 
(280) 7305.90.50 
(281) 7306.11.00 
(282) 7306.19.10 
(283) 7306.19.51 
(284) 7306.21.30 
(285) 7306.21.40 
(286) 7306.21.80 
(287) 7306.29.10 
(288) 7306.29.20 
(289) 7306.29.31 
(290) 7306.29.41 
(291) 7306.29.60 
(292) 7306.29.81 
(293) 7306.30.10 
(294) 7306.30.30 
(295) 7306.30.50 
(296) 7306.40.10 
(297) 7306.40.50 
(298) 7306.50.10 
(299) 7306.50.30 
(300) 7306.50.50 

[Page 75]
75 
(301) 7306.61.10 
(302) 7306.61.30 
(303) 7306.61.50 
(304) 7306.61.70 
(305) 7306.69.10 
(306) 7306.69.30 
(307) 7306.69.70 
(308) 7306.90.10 
(309) 7306.90.50 
(310) 7601.10.30 
(311) 7601.10.60 
(312) 7601.20.30 
(313) 7601.20.60 
(314) 7601.20.90 
(315) 7604.10.10 
(316) 7604.10.30 
(317) 7604.10.50 
(318) 7604.21.00 
(319) 7604.29.10 
(320) 7604.29.30 
(321) 7604.29.50 
(322) 7605.11.00 
(323) 7605.19.00 
(324) 7605.21.00 
(325) 7605.29.00 
(326) 7606.11.30 
(327) 7606.11.60 
(328) 7606.12.30 
(329) 7606.12.60 
(330) 7606.91.30 
(331) 7606.91.60 
(332) 7606.92.30 
(333) 7606.92.60 
(334) 7607.11.30 
(335) 7607.11.60 
(336) 7607.11.90 
(337) 7607.19.60 
(338) 7607.20.10 
(339) 7608.10.00 
(340) 7608.20.00 
(341) 7609.00.00 
(342) 7901.11.00 
(343) 7901.12.10 
(344) 7901.12.50 
(345) 7901.20.00 
(346) 8001.10.00 

[Page 76]
76 
(347) 8001.20.00 
(348) 8101.10.00 
(349) 8103.20.00 
(350) 8112.21.00 
(351) 8112.92.30  
(352) 8507.90.40”. 
 
“(c) Heading 9903.91.02 applies to products of China that are classified in the following 8-
digit subheadings, effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn 
from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on September 
27, 2024: 
 
(1) 8541.42.00 
(2) 8541.43.00”. 
 
“(d) Heading 9903.91.03 applies to products of China that are classified in the following 8-
digit subheadings, effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn 
from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on September 
27, 2024: 
 
(1) 8702.40.31 
(2) 8702.40.61 
(3) 8702.90.31 
(4) 8702.90.61 
(5) 8703.60.00 
(6) 8703.70.00 
(7) 8703.80.00 
(8) 8703.90.01 
(9) 9018.31.00 
(10)  9018.32.00”. 
 
“(e) Heading 9903.91.04 applies to facemasks of textiles, disposable, of China, described in 
statistical reporting number 6307.90.9870, effective with respect to goods entered for 
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern 
standard time on January 1, 2025, and before January 1, 2026.” 
 
“(f) Heading 9903.91.05 applies to products of China that are classified in the following 8-
digit subheadings, effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn 
from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 
2025: 
 
(1) 4015.12.10 
(2) 8541.10.00 
(3) 8541.21.00 
(4) 8541.29.00 
(5) 8541.30.00 

[Page 77]
77 
(6) 8541.49.10 
(7) 8541.49.70 
(8) 8541.49.80 
(9) 8541.49.95 
(10) 8541.51.00 
(11) 8541.59.00 
(12) 8541.90.00 
(13) 8542.31.00 
(14) 8542.32.00 
(15) 8542.33.00 
(16) 8542.39.00 
(17) 8542.90.00”. 
 
“(g) Heading 9903.91.06 applies to products of China that are classified in the following 8-
digit subheadings, effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn 
from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 
2026: 
 
(1) 2504.10.10 
(2) 2504.10.50 
(3) 2504.90.00 
(4) 8505.11.00 
(5) 8507.60.00”. 
 
“(h) Heading 9903.91.07 applies to products of China that are described in the following 10-
digit statistical reporting numbers, effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, 
or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time 
on January 1, 2026: 
 
(1) N95 respirators of textiles, described in statistical reporting numbers 
6307.90.9842 or 6307.90.9844 
(2) Respirators of textiles, other than N95 respirators, described in 
statistical reporting number 6307.90.9850 
(3) Face masks of textiles, described in statistical reporting numbers 
6307.90.9870 or 6307.90.9875”. 
 
“(i) Heading 9903.91.08 applies to products of China classified in 8-digit subheading 
4015.12.10, effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 
2026.”  
 
5. Effective with respect to goods of China entered for consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on 
September 27, 2024, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by 
inserting the following new heading 9903.92 and new subheadings 9903.92.10 and 
9903.92.80 in numerical sequence, with the material in the new headings and 

[Page 78]
78 
subheadings inserted in the columns of the HTSUS labeled “Heading/Subheading”, 
“Article Description”, “Rates of Duty 1-General”, “Rates of Duty 1-Special” and 
“Rates of Duty 2”, respectively: 
Heading/ 
Subheading Article Description 
Rates of Duty 
1 2 
General Special 
“9903.92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9903.92.10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9903.92.80 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective with respect to entries, on or after 
September 27, 2024, of overhead traveling 
cranes, transporter cranes, gantry cranes, 
bridge cranes and mobile lifting frames, other 
than overhead traveling cranes on fixed 
support and other than mobile lifting frames on 
tires, articles the product of China (provided 
for in subheading 8426.19.00): 
Except as provided in heading 
9903.91.09, ship-to-shore gantry cranes, 
configured as a high- or low-profile steel 
superstructure and designed to unload 
intermodal containers from vessels with 
coupling devices for containers, 
including spreaders or twist-locks 
(provided for in subheading 8426.19.00) 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 
 
 
 
Other (provided for in subheading 
8426.19.00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
+ 25% 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading”
. 
  
 
 
6. Effective with respect to products of China that are entered for consumption, or 
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight 
time on September 27, 2024, and before May 14, 2026, subchapter III of chapter 99 
of the HTSUS is modified by inserting the following new heading 9903.91.09 in 
numerical sequence, with the material in the new heading inserted in the columns of 
the HTSUS labeled “Heading/Subheading”, “Article Description”, “Rates of Duty 1-
General”, “Rates of Duty 1-Special” and “Rates of Duty 2”, respectively:  
 
 

[Page 79]
79 
Heading/ 
Subheading Article Description 
Rates of Duty 
1 2 
General Special 
“9903.91.09 Notwithstanding subheading 9903.92.10, 
effective with respect to entries, on or after 
September 27, 2024, of ship-to-shore 
gantry cranes, configured as a high- or 
low-profile steel superstructure and 
designed to unload intermodal containers 
from vessels with coupling devices for 
containers, including spreaders or twist-
locks, articles the product of China 
(provided for in subheading 8426.19.00), 
that are fulfilling in whole or in part an 
executed contract for sale dated prior to 
May 14, 2024 for goods that are entered for 
consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, in the United 
States prior to May 14, 2026 . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading”. 
  
 
 
7. Effective with respect to products of China that are entered for consumption, or 
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight 
time on September 27, 2024, and before January 1, 2026, subchapter III of chapter 99 
of the HTSUS is modified by inserting the following new heading 9903.91.10 in 
numerical sequence, with the material in the new heading inserted in the columns of 
the HTSUS labeled “Heading/Subheading”, “Article Description”, “Rates of Duty 1-
General”, “Rates of Duty 1-Special” and “Rates of Duty 2”, respectively: 
Heading/ 
Subheading Article Description 
Rates of Duty 
1 2 
General Special 
“9903.91.10 Notwithstanding heading 9903.91.03, 
effective with respect to entries of enteral 
syringes, of China, on or after September 
27, 2024, and before January 1, 2026 
(described in statistical reporting number 
9018.31.0080) . . .  
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading”. 
  
 

[Page 80]
80 
8. Effective with respect to products of China that are entered for consumption, or 
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight 
time on January 1, 2024, and before June 1, 2025, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the 
HTSUS is modified: 
(a) by inserting the following new heading 9903.88.70 in numerical sequence, with the 
material in the new heading inserted in the columns of the HTSUS labeled 
“Heading/Subheading”, “Article Description”, “Rates of Duty 1-General”, “Rates of Duty 1-
Special” and “Rates of Duty 2”, respectively: 
Heading/ 
Subheading Article Description 
Rates of Duty 
1 2 
General Special 
“9903.88.70 Effective with respect to entries on or after 
January 1, 2024, and before June 1, 2025, 
articles the product of China, as provided 
in U.S. note 20(www) to this subchapter, 
each covered by an exclusion granted by 
the U.S. Trade Representative . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . 
 
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading”. 
  
 
(b) by inserting the following new U.S. note 20(www) to subchapter III of chapter 99 in 
numerical sequence: 
 
“(www) The U.S. Trade Representative determined to establish a process by which particular 
products classified in heading 9903.88.02 and provided for in U.S. notes 20(c) and (d) to this 
subchapter could be excluded from the additional duties imposed by heading 9903.88.02. See 
83 Fed. Reg. 40823 (August 16, 2018) and 83 Fed. Reg. 47236 (September 18, 2018). 
Pursuant to the product exclusion process, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined that 
the additional duties imposed by heading 9903.88.02 and U.S. note 20(d) to this subchapter 
shall not apply to the products of China described herein and classified in the specified 
subheadings of heading 8486 of the tariff schedule, when such products of China are entered 
with a claim for the tariff treatment provided in heading 9903.88.70 of this subchapter: 
(1) Silicon growth furnaces, including Czochralski crystal growth furnaces, designed 
for growing monocrystalline silicon ingots (boules) of a mass exceeding 700 kg, 
for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described in statistical reporting number 
8486.10.0000) 
(2) Band saws designed for cutting or slicing cylindrical monocrystalline silicon 
ingots (boules) of an initial mass exceeding 400 kg into square or rectangular 
ingots (boules), for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described in statistical 
reporting number 8486.10.0000) 
(3) Machines designed to align and adhere square or rectangular monocrystalline 
silicon ingots (boules) of an initial mass exceeding 200 kg to plastic support 

[Page 81]
81 
boards on metal mounting plates to provide support during diamond wire sawing, 
for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described in statistical reporting number 
8486.10.0000) 
(4) Diamond wire saws designed for cutting or slicing square or rectangular 
monocrystalline silicon ingots (boules) of an initial mass exceeding 400 kg into 
solar wafers of a thickness not exceeding 200 micrometers (described in statistical 
reporting number 8486.10.0000) 
(5) Wire guide roller machines, presented with diamond wire saws designed for 
slicing square or rectangular monocrystalline silicon ingots (boules) of an initial 
mass exceeding 400 kg into solar wafers of a thickness not exceeding 200 
micrometers, all of the foregoing for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described 
in statistical reporting number 8486.10.0000)  
(6) Coolant fluid recycling machines, presented with diamond wire saws designed for 
slicing square or rectangular monocrystalline silicon ingots (boules) of an initial 
mass exceeding 400 kg into solar wafers of a thickness not exceeding 200 
micrometers, all of the foregoing for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described 
in statistical reporting number 8486.10.0000) 
(7) Degumming machines designed to remove adhesives from solar wafers (described 
in statistical reporting number 8486.10.0000) 
(8) Texturing, etching, polishing, and cleaning machines designed to prepare, repair, 
clean, etch, polish or texture the solar wafer substrate, whether or not integrated 
with automation equipment for transferring solar wafers from one process station 
to the next, all the foregoing for use in solar wafer manufacturing (described in 
statistical reporting number 8486.20.0000) 
(9) Thermal diffusion quartz-tube furnaces, designed to diffuse dopant impurities into 
square or rectangular silicon wafers, whether or not integrated with automation 
equipment for transferring solar wafers from one process station to the next or 
boat loading or unloading machines, all the foregoing for use in solar cell 
manufacturing (described in statistical reporting number 8486.20.0000) 
(10) Plasma-enhanced or low-pressure chemical vapor deposition machines designed 
to deposit amorphous or nanocrystalline layers on one or both surfaces of a solar 
wafer, whether or not integrated with automation equipment for transferring solar 
wafers from one process station to the next, all the foregoing for use in solar cell 
manufacturing (described in statistical reporting number 8486.20.0000) 
(11) Physical vapor deposition (PVD) machines, designed to deposit a thin film of 
transparent conducting oxide on one or both surfaces of a solar wafer, whether or 
not integrated with automation equipment for transferring solar wafers from one 
process station to the next, all the foregoing for use in solar cell manufacturing 
(described in statistical reporting number 8486.20.0000) 
(12) Screen printing line machines, including sintering furnaces for printing 
conducting contacts on both surfaces of a solar wafer, whether or not integrated 
with automation equipment for transferring solar wafers from one process station 
to the next, and whether or not integrated with equipment for solar cell testing, all 

[Page 82]
82 
the foregoing for use in solar cell manufacturing (described in statistical reporting 
number 8486.20.0000) 
(13) Machines designed for transporting polysilicon material to growth furnaces and 
machines designed for transporting monocrystalline ingots (boules) and wafers 
throughout the solar wafer manufacturing process, including machines for loading 
or unloading solar wafers during the diamond wire slicing process (described in 
statistical reporting number 8486.40.0030) 
(14) Machines designed for lifting, handling, loading, or unloading of solar wafers of a 
thickness not exceeding 200 micrometers, for use in solar wafer manufacturing 
(described in statistical reporting number 8486.40.0030) 
 
9. Effective on September 27, 2024, subdivision (s)(i) of note 20 to subchapter III of 
chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by deleting “6307.90.98” and subdivision (s)(ii) 
of note 20 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by inserting the 
following in numerical order: “5. Other made-up articles of textile materials, provided 
for in subheading 6307.90.98, except for respirators of textiles, described in statistical 
reporting numbers 6307.90.9842, 6307.90.9844 or 6307.90.9850, and except for face 
masks of textiles, other than disposable, described in statistical reporting number 
6307.90.9875;”. 
 
10. Effective on September 27, 2024, subdivision (s)(i) of note 20 to subchapter III of 
chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by deleting “8507.60.00” and subdivision (s)(ii) 
of note 20 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by inserting the 
following in numerical order: “6. Lithium-ion batteries, provided for in subheading 
8507.60.00, except for lithium-ion batteries of a kind used as the primary source of 
electrical power for electrically powered vehicles of subheadings 8703.40, 8703.50, 
8703.60, 8703.70 or 8703.80, described in statistical reporting number 
8507.60.0010”. 
11. Effective on September 27, 2024, note 20(b) to subchapter III of chapter 99 is 
modified by deleting the following 8-digit subheading numbers: 
 
(1) 8702.40.31 
(2) 8702.40.61 
(3) 8702.90.31 
(4) 8702.90.61 
(5) 8703.60.00 
(6) 8703.70.00 
(7) 8703.80.00 
(8) 8703.90.01 
 
12. Effective on September 27, 2024, note 20(d) to subchapter III of chapter 99 is 
modified by deleting the following 8-digit subheading numbers: 
 
(1) 8541.42.00 
(2) 8541.43.00 

[Page 83]
83 
 
13. Effective on September 27, 2024, note 20(s)(i) to subchapter III of chapter 99 is 
modified by deleting the following 8-digit subheading numbers: 
 
(1) 7206.10.00 
(2) 7206.90.00 
(3) 7207.11.00 
(4) 7207.12.00 
(5) 7207.19.00 
(6) 7207.20.00 
(7) 7208.10.15 
(8) 7208.10.30 
(9) 7208.10.60 
(10) 7208.25.30 
(11) 7208.25.60 
(12) 7208.26.00 
(13) 7208.27.00 
(14) 7208.36.00 
(15) 7208.37.00 
(16) 7208.38.00 
(17) 7208.39.00 
(18) 7208.40.30 
(19) 7208.40.60 
(20) 7208.51.00 
(21) 7208.52.00 
(22) 7208.53.00 
(23) 7208.54.00 
(24) 7208.90.00 
(25) 7209.15.00 
(26) 7209.16.00 
(27) 7209.17.00 
(28) 7209.18.15 
(29) 7209.18.25 
(30) 7209.18.60 
(31) 7209.25.00 
(32) 7209.26.00 
(33) 7209.27.00 
(34) 7209.28.00 
(35) 7209.90.00 
(36) 7210.11.00 
(37) 7210.12.00 
(38) 7210.30.00 
(39) 7210.41.00 
(40) 7210.49.00 
(41) 7210.50.00 
(42) 7210.61.00 

[Page 84]
84 
(43) 7210.69.00 
(44) 7210.70.30 
(45) 7210.70.60 
(46) 7210.90.10 
(47) 7210.90.60 
(48) 7210.90.90 
(49) 7211.13.00 
(50) 7211.14.00 
(51) 7211.19.15 
(52) 7211.19.20 
(53) 7211.19.30 
(54) 7211.19.45 
(55) 7211.19.60 
(56) 7211.19.75 
(57) 7211.23.15 
(58) 7211.23.20 
(59) 7211.23.30 
(60) 7211.23.45 
(61) 7211.23.60 
(62) 7211.29.20 
(63) 7211.29.45 
(64) 7211.29.60 
(65) 7211.90.00 
(66) 7212.10.00 
(67) 7212.20.00 
(68) 7212.30.10 
(69) 7212.30.30 
(70) 7212.30.50 
(71) 7212.40.10 
(72) 7212.40.50 
(73) 7212.50.00 
(74) 7212.60.00 
(75) 7213.10.00 
(76) 7213.20.00 
(77) 7213.91.30 
(78) 7213.91.45 
(79) 7213.91.60 
(80) 7213.99.00 
(81) 7214.20.00 
(82) 7214.30.00 
(83) 7214.91.00 
(84) 7214.99.00 
(85) 7215.10.00 
(86) 7215.50.00 
(87) 7215.90.10 
(88) 7215.90.50 

[Page 85]
85 
(89) 7216.10.00 
(90) 7216.21.00 
(91) 7216.22.00 
(92) 7216.31.00 
(93) 7216.32.00 
(94) 7216.33.00 
(95) 7216.40.00 
(96) 7216.50.00 
(97) 7216.99.00 
(98) 7217.10.10 
(99) 7217.10.20 
(100) 7217.10.30 
(101) 7217.10.50 
(102) 7217.10.60 
(103) 7217.10.70 
(104) 7217.10.80 
(105) 7217.10.90 
(106) 7217.20.15 
(107) 7217.20.30 
(108) 7217.20.45 
(109) 7217.20.60 
(110) 7217.20.75 
(111) 7217.30.15 
(112) 7217.30.30 
(113) 7217.30.60 
(114) 7217.30.75 
(115) 7217.90.10 
(116) 7217.90.50 
(117) 7218.10.00 
(118) 7218.91.00 
(119) 7218.99.00 
(120) 7219.11.00 
(121) 7219.12.00 
(122) 7219.13.00 
(123) 7219.14.00 
(124) 7219.21.00 
(125) 7219.22.00 
(126) 7219.23.00 
(127) 7219.24.00 
(128) 7219.31.00 
(129) 7219.32.00 
(130) 7219.33.00 
(131) 7219.34.00 
(132) 7219.35.00 
(133) 7219.90.00 
(134) 7220.12.10 

[Page 86]
86 
(135) 7220.12.50 
(136) 7220.20.10 
(137) 7220.20.60 
(138) 7220.20.70 
(139) 7220.20.80 
(140) 7220.90.00 
(141) 7221.00.00 
(142) 7222.11.00 
(143) 7222.19.00 
(144) 7222.20.00 
(145) 7222.30.00 
(146) 7222.40.30 
(147) 7222.40.60 
(148) 7223.00.10 
(149) 7223.00.50 
(150) 7223.00.90 
(151) 7224.10.00 
(152) 7224.90.00 
(153) 7225.11.00 
(154) 7225.19.00 
(155) 7225.30.11 
(156) 7225.30.30 
(157) 7225.30.51 
(158) 7225.30.70 
(159) 7225.40.11 
(160) 7225.40.30 
(161) 7225.40.51 
(162) 7225.40.70 
(163) 7225.50.11 
(164) 7225.50.60 
(165) 7225.50.70 
(166) 7225.50.80 
(167) 7225.91.00 
(168) 7225.92.00 
(169) 7225.99.00 
(170) 7226.11.10 
(171) 7226.11.90 
(172) 7226.19.10 
(173) 7226.19.90 
(174) 7226.20.00 
(175) 7226.91.05 
(176) 7226.91.15 
(177) 7226.91.25 
(178) 7226.91.50 
(179) 7226.91.70 
(180) 7226.91.80 

[Page 87]
87 
(181) 7226.92.10 
(182) 7226.92.30 
(183) 7226.92.50 
(184) 7226.92.70 
(185) 7226.92.80 
(186) 7226.99.01 
(187) 7227.10.00 
(188) 7227.20.00 
(189) 7227.90.10 
(190) 7227.90.20 
(191) 7227.90.60 
(192) 7228.20.10 
(193) 7228.20.50 
(194) 7228.30.40 
(195) 7228.30.60 
(196) 7228.30.80 
(197) 7228.40.00 
(198) 7228.50.10 
(199) 7228.50.50 
(200) 7228.60.10 
(201) 7228.60.60 
(202) 7228.60.80 
(203) 7228.70.30 
(204) 7228.70.60 
(205) 7229.20.00 
(206) 7229.90.10 
(207) 7229.90.50 
(208) 7229.90.90 
(209) 7301.10.00 
(210) 7302.10.10 
(211) 7302.10.50 
(212) 7302.90.10 
(213) 7302.90.90 
(214) 7304.11.00 
(215) 7304.19.10 
(216) 7304.19.50 
(217) 7304.22.00 
(218) 7304.23.60 
(219) 7304.24.30 
(220) 7304.24.40 
(221) 7304.24.60 
(222) 7304.29.10 
(223) 7304.29.20 
(224) 7304.29.31 
(225) 7304.29.41 
(226) 7304.29.50 

[Page 88]
88 
(227) 7304.29.61 
(228) 7304.31.30 
(229) 7304.31.60 
(230) 7304.39.00 
(231) 7304.49.00 
(232) 7304.51.10 
(233) 7304.51.50 
(234) 7304.59.10 
(235) 7304.59.20 
(236) 7304.59.60 
(237) 7304.59.80 
(238) 7304.90.10 
(239) 7304.90.70 
(240) 7305.11.10 
(241) 7305.11.50 
(242) 7305.12.10 
(243) 7305.12.50 
(244) 7305.19.10 
(245) 7305.19.50 
(246) 7305.20.20 
(247) 7305.20.40 
(248) 7305.20.60 
(249) 7305.20.80 
(250) 7305.31.20 
(251) 7305.31.40 
(252) 7305.31.60 
(253) 7305.39.10 
(254) 7305.39.50 
(255) 7305.90.10 
(256) 7305.90.50 
(257) 7306.11.00 
(258) 7306.19.10 
(259) 7306.19.51 
(260) 7306.21.30 
(261) 7306.21.40 
(262) 7306.21.80 
(263) 7306.29.10 
(264) 7306.29.20 
(265) 7306.29.31 
(266) 7306.29.41 
(267) 7306.29.60 
(268) 7306.29.81 
(269) 7306.30.10 
(270) 7306.30.30 
(271) 7306.30.50 
(272) 7306.40.10 

[Page 89]
89 
(273) 7306.40.50 
(274) 7306.50.10 
(275) 7306.50.30 
(276) 7306.50.50 
(277) 7306.61.10 
(278) 7306.61.30 
(279) 7306.61.50 
(280) 7306.61.70 
(281) 7306.69.10 
(282) 7306.69.30 
(283) 7306.69.70 
(284) 7306.90.10 
(285) 7306.90.50 
(286) 7601.10.30 
(287) 7601.10.60 
(288) 7601.20.30 
(289) 7601.20.60 
(290) 7601.20.90 
(291) 7604.10.10 
(292) 7604.10.30 
(293) 7604.10.50 
(294) 7604.21.00 
(295) 7604.29.10 
(296) 7604.29.30 
(297) 7604.29.50 
(298) 7605.11.00 
(299) 7605.19.00 
(300) 7605.21.00 
(301) 7605.29.00 
(302) 7606.11.30 
(303) 7606.11.60 
(304) 7606.12.30 
(305) 7606.12.60 
(306) 7606.91.30 
(307) 7606.91.60 
(308) 7606.92.30 
(309) 7606.92.60 
(310) 7607.11.30 
(311) 7607.11.60 
(312) 7607.11.90 
(313) 7607.19.60 
(314) 7607.20.10 
(315) 7608.10.00 
(316) 7608.20.00 
(317) 7609.00.00 
(318) 8507.90.40 

[Page 90]
90 
 
14. Effective on September 27, 2024, note 20(s)(ii)(4) to subchapter III of chapter 99 is 
modified by deleting “9401.71.00031” and by inserting “9401.71.0031” in lieu 
thereof. 
 
15. Effective on September 27, 2024, note 20(u)(i) to subchapter III of chapter 99 is 
modified by deleting the following 8-digit subheading numbers: 
 
(1) 7210.20.00 
(2) 7215.90.30 
(3) 7302.40.00 
(4) 7304.23.30 
 
16. Effective on January 1, 2025, note 20(b) to subchapter III of chapter 99 is modified 
by deleting the following 8-digit subheading numbers: 
 
(1) 8541.21.00 
(2) 8541.29.00 
(3) 8541.30.00 
(4) 8541.49.70 
(5) 8541.49.80 
(6) 8541.49.95 
(7) 8541.51.00 
(8) 8541.59.00 
(9) 8541.90.00 
 
17. Effective on January 1, 2025, note 20(d) to subchapter III of chapter 99 is modified 
by deleting the following 8-digit subheading numbers: 
 
(1) 8541.10.00 
(2) 8541.49.10 
(3) 8542.31.00 
(4) 8542.32.00 
(5) 8542.33.00 
(6) 8542.39.00 
(7) 8542.90.00 
 
18. Effective on January 1, 2025, note 20(s)(i) to subchapter III of chapter 99 is modified 
by deleting “4015.12.10”. 
 
19. Effective on January 1, 2025, subparagraph 5 of subdivision (s)(ii) of note 20 to 
subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by deleting “and except for 
face masks of textiles, other than disposable, described in statistical reporting number 
6307.90.9875” and by inserting “and except for face masks of textiles, described in 
statistical reporting numbers 6307.90.9870 or 6307.90.9875” in lieu thereof. 
 

[Page 91]
91 
20. Effective on January 1, 2026, subdivision (s)(ii) of note 20 to subchapter III of 
chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by deleting subparagraph number 6 and its 
associated tariff language. Subparagraph number 5 of such subdivision is modified by 
deleting the semicolon at the end of the subparagraph and inserting a period in lieu 
thereof. 
 
21. Effective on January 1, 2026, subdivision (b) of note 31 to subchapter III of chapter 
99 of the HTSUS is modified by deleting subparagraph numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4, and 
their associated tariff language. 
 
22. Effective on January 1, 2026, subdivision (f) of note 31 to subchapter III of chapter 
99 of the HTSUS is modified by deleting “(1) 4015.12.10”. 
 
23. Effective on January 1, 2024: 
(1) subdivisions (c) and (d) of note 20 to subchapter III of chapter 99 are each 
modified: (a) by deleting “or (11)” and by inserting “(11)” in lieu thereof; and 
(b) by inserting “or (12) heading 9903.88.70 and U.S. note 20(www) to 
subchapter III of chapter 99” after “U.S. note 20(vvv)(ii) to subchapter III of 
chapter 99”; and 
(2) the article description of heading 9903.88.02 is modified by deleting “or 
9903.88.69,” and by inserting in lieu thereof “9903.88.69, or 9903.88.70,” in 
lieu thereof. 
 
ANNEX D - IMPORTER CERTIFICATION 
 
I hereby certify that: 
 
(A) My name is [IMPORTER OF RECORD OFFICIAL'S NAME] and I am an official of 
[NAME OF IMPORTER OF RECORD], located at [ADDRESS OF IMPORTER OF 
RECORD]. 
 
(B) I hereby certify that the ship-to-shore crane(s) that was entered into the Customs territory 
of the 
United States under the entry summary number(s) identified below are fulfilling in whole or 
in 
part a contract for sale, purchase, or delivery in the United States of such ship-to-shore 
crane(s) that was in effect and dated as executed prior to May 14, 2024, that specifies that the 
ship-to-shore crane(s) is to be imported to or delivered within the United States before May 
14, 2026, and that has not been modified on or later than May 14, 2024, with regard to 
delivery date. 
 
(C) This certification applies to the following entries (repeat this block as many times as 
necessary): 
 
Entry Number: 
 

[Page 92]
92 
Applicable Line Item Number of the Entry (Declared Under 9903.91.09, HTSUS): 
 
(D) I understand that [NAME OF IMPORTER OF RECORD] is required to provide U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection (CBP) with this certification at the time the entry summary is 
filed and that any additional supporting documentation must be provided upon request by 
CBP. 
 
 
Signature 
 
[NAME OF COMPANY OFFICIAL] 
[TITLE OF COMPANY OFFICIAL] 
 
Date 
ANNEX E – Subheadings Eligible for Machinery Exclusion Process 
 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8417.10.00 Furnaces and ovens for the roasting, melting or other heat 
treatment of ores, pyrites or of metals 
8417.80.00 Industrial or laboratory furnaces and ovens nesoi (not elsewhere 
specified or included), including incinerators, nonelectric 
8418.69.01 Refrigerating or freezing equipment nesoi 
8419.33.10 Lyophilization apparatus; freeze drying units; spray dryers, for 
agricultural products 
8419.33.50 Lyophilization apparatus; freeze drying units; spray dryers, other 
than for agricultural products, nesoi 
8419.34.00 Other dryers for agricultural products (other than lyophilization 
apparatus; freeze drying units; spray dryers) 
8419.35.10 Dryers for wood 
8419.35.50 Dryers for paper pulp, paper or paperboard 
8419.39.02 Other dryers other than of a kind used for domestic purposes, 
nesoi (other than lyophilization apparatus; freeze drying units; 
spray dryers) 
8419.40.00 Distilling or rectifying plant, not used for domestic purposes 
8419.50.10 Brazed aluminum plate-fin heat exchangers 
8419.50.50 Heat exchange units, nesoi 
8419.60.10 Machinery for liquefying air or gas containing brazed aluminum 
plate-fin heat exchangers 
8419.60.50 Machinery for liquefying air or gas, nesoi 
8419.89.10 Machinery and equipment for the treatment of materials (by a 
process which changes temperatures), for making 
paper pulp, paper or paperboard 

[Page 93]
93 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8419.89.60 Industrial machinery, plant or equip. for the treat. of mat., 
involving a change in temp., for molten-salt-cooled acrylic 
acid reactors 
8419.89.95 Industrial machinery, plant or equipment for the treatment of 
materials, by process involving a change in temperature, nesoi 
8420.10.10 Textile calendering or rolling machines 
8420.10.20 Calendering or similar rolling machines for making paper pulp, 
paper or paperboard 
8420.10.90 Calendering or other rolling machines, other than for metals or 
glass, nesoi 
8420.91.10 Cylinders for textile calendering or rolling machines 
8420.91.20 Cylinders for paper pulp, paper or paperboard calendering or 
rolling machines 
8420.91.90 Cylinders for calendering and similar rolling machines, nesoi 
8421.21.00 Machinery and apparatus for filtering or purifying water 
8421.29.00 Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus for liquids, nesoi 
8421.39.01 Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus for gases, other 
than intake air filters or catalytic conv. for internal combustion 
engines 
8422.19.00 Dishwashing machines other than of the household type 
8422.20.00 Machinery for cleaning or drying bottles or other containers 
8422.30.11 Can-sealing machines 
8422.30.91 Machinery for filling, closing, sealing, capsuling or labeling 
bottles, cans, boxes or other containers; machinery for aerating 
beverages; nesoi 
8422.40.11 Machinery for packing or wrapping pipe tobacco, candy and 
cigarette packages; combination candy cutting and wrapping 
machines 
8422.40.91 Packing or wrapping machinery, nesoi 
8428.70.00 Industrial robots 
8429.11.00 Self-propelled bulldozers and angledozers, for track laying 
8429.19.00 Self-propelled bulldozers and angledozers other than track laying 
8429.20.00 Self-propelled graders and levelers 
8429.30.00 Self-propelled scrapers 
8429.40.00 Self-propelled tamping machines and road rollers 
8429.51.10 Self-propelled front-end shovel loaders, wheel-type 
8429.51.50 Self-propelled front-end shovel loaders, other than wheel-type 
8429.52.10 Self-propelled backhoes, shovels, clamshells and draglines with a 
360 degree revolving superstructure 

[Page 94]
94 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8429.52.50 Self-propelled machinery with a 360 degree revolving 
superstructure, other than backhoes, shovels, clamshells and 
draglines 
8429.59.10 Self-propelled backhoes, shovels, clamshells and draglines not 
with a 360 degree revolving superstructure 
8429.59.50 Self-propelled machinery not with a 360 degree revolving 
superstructure, other than backhoes, shovels, clamshells 
and draglines 
8430.10.00 Pile-drivers and pile-extractors 
8430.31.00 Self-propelled coal or rock cutters and tunneling machinery 
8430.39.00 Coal or rock cutters and tunneling machinery, not self-propelled 
8430.41.00 Self-propelled boring or sinking machinery 
8430.49.40 Offshore oil and natural gas drilling and production platforms 
8430.49.80 Boring or sinking machinery, not self-propelled, nesoi 
8430.50.10 Self-propelled peat excavators 
8430.50.50 Self-propelled machinery for working earth, minerals or ores, 
nesoi 
8430.61.00 Tamping or compacting machinery, not self-propelled 
8430.69.01 Machinery for working earth, minerals or ores, not self-propelled, 
nesoi 
8432.10.00 Plows for soil preparation or cultivation 
8432.21.00 Disc harrows for soil preparation or cultivation 
8432.29.00 Harrows (other than disc), scarifiers, cultivators, weeders and hoes 
for soil preparation or cultivation 
8432.31.00 No-till direct seeders, planters and transplanters 
8432.39.00 Seeders, planters and transplanters, nesoi 
8432.41.00 Manure spreaders 
8432.42.00 Fertilizer distributors 
8432.80.00 Agricultural, horticultural or forestry machinery for soil 
preparation or cultivation, nesoi; lawn or sports ground 
rollers 
8433.30.00 Haymaking machinery other than mowers 
8433.40.00 Straw or fodder balers, including pick-up balers 
8433.51.00 Combine harvester-threshers 
8433.52.00 Threshing machinery other than combine harvester-threshers 
8433.53.00 Root or tuber harvesting machines 
8433.59.00 Harvesting machinery or threshing machinery, nesoi 

[Page 95]
95 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8433.60.00 Machines for cleaning, sorting or grading eggs, fruit or other 
agricultural produce 
8435.10.00 Presses, crushers and similar machinery used in the manufacture 
of wine, cider, fruit juices or similar beverages 
8436.10.00 Machinery for preparing animal feeds 
8436.21.00 Poultry incubators and brooders 
8436.29.00 Poultry-keeping machinery 
8436.80.00 Agricultural, horticultural, forestry or bee-keeping machinery, 
nesoi 
8437.10.00 Machines for cleaning, sorting or grading seed, grain or dried 
leguminous vegetables 
8437.80.00 Machinery used in the milling industry or for the working of 
cereals or dried leguminous vegetables, other than farm 
type machinery 
8438.10.00 Bakery machinery and machinery for the manufacture of 
macaroni, spaghetti or similar products, nesoi 
8438.20.00 Machinery for the manufacture of confectionery, cocoa or 
chocolate, nesoi 
8438.30.00 Machinery for sugar manufacture, nesoi 
8438.40.00 Brewery machinery, nesoi 
8438.50.00 Machinery for the preparation of meat or poultry, nesoi 
8438.60.00 Machinery for the preparation of fruits, nuts or vegetables, nesoi 
8438.80.00 Machinery for the industrial preparation or manufacture of food or 
drink, nesoi 
8439.10.00 Machinery for making pulp of fibrous cellulosic material 
8439.20.00 Machinery for making paper or paperboard 
8439.30.00 Machinery for finishing paper or paperboard 
8441.10.00 Cutting machines of all kinds used for making up paper pulp, 
paper or paperboard 
8441.20.00 Machines for making bags, sacks or envelopes of paper pulp, 
paper or paperboard 
8441.30.00 Machines for making cartons, boxes, cases, tubes, drums or 
similar containers, other than by molding, of paper pulp, paper or 
paperboard 
8441.40.00 Machines for molding articles in paper pulp, paper or paperboard 
8441.80.00 Machinery for making up paper pulp, paper or paperboard, nesoi 
8442.30.01 Machinery, apparatus and equipment of heading 8442 
8442.50.10 Printing plates 

[Page 96]
96 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8442.50.90 Printing type, blocks, cylinders and other printing components; 
blocks, cylinders and lithographic stones, prepared 
for printing purposes 
8443.19.30 Printing machinery, nesoi 
8444.00.00 Machines for extruding, drawing, texturing or cutting man-made 
textile materials 
8445.11.00 Carding machines for preparing textile fibers 
8445.12.00 Combing machines for preparing textile fibers 
8445.13.00 Drawing or roving machines for preparing textile fibers 
8445.19.00 Machines for preparing textile fibers, nesoi 
8445.20.00 Textile spinning machines 
8445.30.00 Textile doubling or twisting machines 
8445.40.00 Textile winding (including weft-winding) or reeling machines 
8445.90.00 Machinery for producing textile yarns nesoi; machines for 
preparing textile yarns for use on machines of heading 8446 or 
8447 
8446.10.00 Weaving machines (looms) for weaving fabrics of a width not 
exceeding 30 cm 
8446.21.50 Shuttle type power looms for weaving fabrics of a width 
exceeding 30 cm, but not exceeding 4.9 m 
8446.29.00 Weaving machines for weaving fabrics of a width exceeding 30 
cm, shuttle type, nesoi 
8446.30.10 Shuttleless type power looms, for weaving fabrics of a width 
exceeding 4.9 m, nesoi 
8446.30.50 Shuttleless type weaving machines (looms), for weaving fabrics of 
a width exceeding 30 cm, nesoi 
8447.11.10 Circular knitting machines with cylinder diameter not exceeding 
165 mm, for knitting hosiery 
8447.11.90 Circular knitting machines with cylinder diameter not exceeding 
165 mm, other than for knitting hosiery 
8447.12.10 Circular knitting machines with cylinder diameter exceeding 165 
mm, for knitting hosiery 
8447.12.90 Circular knitting machines with cylinder diameter exceeding 165 
mm, other than for knitting hosiery 
8447.20.20 V-bed flat knitting machines, power driven, over 50.8 mm in 
width 
8447.20.30 V-bed flat knitting machines, nesoi 
8447.20.40 Warp knitting machines 
8447.20.60 Flat knitting machines, other than V-bed or warp; stitch-bonding 
machines 

[Page 97]
97 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8447.90.10 Braiding and lace-braiding machines 
8447.90.50 Embroidery machines 
8447.90.90 Knitting machines other than circular or flat knitting; machines for 
making gimped yarn, tulle, trimmings or net; machines for tufting 
8448.11.00 Dobbies and Jacquards, card reducing, copying, punching or 
assembling machines for use with machines of heading 8444, 
8445, 8446 or 8447 
8448.19.00 Auxiliary machinery for machines of heading 8444, 8445, 8446 or 
8447, nesoi 
8448.31.00 Card clothing as parts and accessories of machines of heading 
8445 or of their auxiliary machinery 
8448.33.00 Spindles, spindle flyers, spinning rings and ring travellers of 
machines of heading 8445 or of their auxiliary machines 
8448.42.00 Reeds for looms, healds and heald-frames of weaving machines 
(looms) or their auxiliary machinery 
8448.51.10 Latch needles for knitting machines 
8448.51.20 Spring-beard needles for knitting machines 
8448.51.30 Needles for knitting machines other than latch needles or spring-
beard needles 
8448.51.50 Sinkers, needles and other articles used to form stitches, nesoi, for 
machines of heading 8447 
8449.00.10 Finishing machinery for felt or nonwovens and parts thereof 
8449.00.50 Machinery for making felt hats; blocks for making hats; parts 
thereof 
8451.29.00 Drying machines for yarns, fabrics or made up textile articles, 
each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 10 kg 
8451.30.00 Ironing machines and presses (including fusing presses) for textile 
fabrics or made up textile articles 
8451.40.00 Washing, bleaching or dyeing machines for textile yarns, fabrics 
or made up textile articles 
8451.50.00 Machines for reeling, unreeling, folding, cutting or pinking textile 
fabrics 
8451.80.00 Machinery for the handling of textile yarns, fabrics or made up 
textile articles, nesoi 
8452.21.10 Sewing machines specially designed to join footwear soles to 
uppers, automatic 
8452.21.90 Sewing machines, automatic, nesoi 
8452.29.10 Sewing machines, other than automatic, specially designed to join 
footwear soles to uppers 
8452.29.90 Sewing machines, other than automatic, nesoi 

[Page 98]
98 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8453.10.00 Machinery for preparing, tanning or working hides, skins or 
leather 
8453.20.00 Machinery for making or repairing footwear 
8453.80.00 Machinery, nesoi, for making or repairing articles of hides, skins 
or leather 
8454.10.00 Converters of a kind used in metallurgy or in metal foundries 
8454.20.00 Ingot molds and ladles, of a kind used in metallurgy or in metal 
foundries 
8454.30.00 Casting machines, of a kind used in metallurgy or in metal 
foundries 
8455.10.00 Metal-rolling tube mills 
8455.21.00 Metal-rolling mills, other than tube mills, hot or combination hot 
and cold 
8455.22.00 Metal-rolling mills, other than tube mills, cold 
8455.30.00 Rolls for metal-rolling mills 
8456.11.10 Machine tools operated by laser, for working metal 
8456.11.70 Machine tools operated by laser, of a kind used solely or 
principally for manufacture of printed circuits 
8456.11.90 Machine tools operated by laser, nesoi 
8456.12.10 Machine tools operated by light or photon beam processes, for 
working metal 
8456.12.70 Machine tools operated by light or photon beam processes, of a 
kind used solely or principally for the manufacture of printed 
circuits 
8456.12.90 Machine tools operated by light or photon beam processes, nesoi 
8456.20.10 Machine tools operated by ultrasonic processes, for working metal 
8456.20.50 Machine tools operated by ultrasonic processes, other than for 
working metal 
8456.30.10 Machine tools operated by electro-discharge processes, for 
working metal 
8456.30.50 Machine tools operated by electro-discharge processes, other than 
for working metal 
8456.40.10 Machine tools operated by plasma arc process, for working metal 
8456.40.90 Machine tools operated by plasma arc process, other than for 
working metal 
8456.50.00 Water-jet cutting machines 
8456.90.31 Machine tools operated by electro-chemical or ionic-beam 
processes, for working metal 
8456.90.71 Machine tools operated by electro-chemical or ionic-beam 
processes, other than for working metal 

[Page 99]
99 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8457.10.00 Machining centers for working metal 
8457.20.00 Unit construction machines (single station), for working metal 
8457.30.00 Multistation transfer machines for working metal 
8458.11.00 Horizontal lathes (including turning centers) for removing metal, 
numerically controlled 
8458.19.00 Horizontal lathes (including turning centers) for removing metal, 
other than numerically controlled 
8458.91.10 Vertical turret lathes (including turning centers) for removing 
metal, numerically controlled 
8458.91.50 Lathes (including turning centers), other than horizontal or 
vertical turret lathes, for removing metal, numerically 
controlled 
8458.99.10 Vertical turret lathes (including turning centers) for removing 
metal, other than numerically controlled 
8458.99.50 Lathes (including turning centers), other than horizontal or 
vertical turret lathes, for removing metal, other than numerically 
controlled 
8459.10.00 Way-type unit head machines for drilling, boring, milling, 
threading or tapping by removing metal, other than lathes of 
heading 8458 
8459.21.00 Drilling machines, numerically controlled, nesoi 
8459.29.00 Drilling machines, other than numerically controlled, nesoi 
8459.31.00 Boring-milling machines, numerically controlled, nesoi 
8459.39.00 Boring-milling machines, other than numerically controlled, nesoi 
8459.41.00 Boring machines, numerically controlled, nesoi 
8459.49.00 Boring machines, not numerically controlled, nesoi 
8459.51.00 Milling machines, knee type, numerically controlled, nesoi 
8459.59.00 Milling machines, knee type, other than numerically controlled, 
nesoi 
8459.61.00 Milling machines, other than knee type, numerically controlled, 
nesoi 
8459.69.00 Milling machines, other than knee type, other than numerically 
controlled, nesoi 
8459.70.40 Other threading or tapping machines, numerically controlled 
8459.70.80 Other threading or tapping machines nesoi 
8460.12.00 Flat-surface grinding machines, numerically controlled 
8460.19.01 Flat-surface grinding machines, not numerically controlled 
8460.22.00 Centerless grinding machines, numerically controlled 
8460.23.00 Other cylindrical grinding machines, numerically controlled 

[Page 100]
100 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8460.24.00 Other grinding machines, numerically controlled 
8460.29.01 Other grinding machines, other than numerically controlled 
8460.31.00 Sharpening (tool or cutter grinding) machines for working metal 
or cermets, numerically controlled 
8460.39.00 Sharpening (tool or cutter grinding) machines for working metal 
or cermets, other than numerically controlled 
8460.40.40 Honing or lapping machines for working metal or cermets, 
numerically controlled 
8460.40.80 Honing or lapping machines for working metal or cermets, other 
than numerically controlled 
8460.90.40 Other machine tools for deburring, polishing or otherwise 
finishing metal or cermets, nesoi, numerically controlled 
8460.90.80 Other machine tools for deburring, polishing or otherwise 
finishing metal or cermets, nesoi, other than numerically 
controlled 
8461.20.40 Shaping or slotting machines for working by removing metal or 
cermets, numerically controlled 
8461.20.80 Shaping or slotting machines for working by removing metal or 
cermets, other than numerically controlled 
8461.30.40 Broaching machines for working by removing metal or cermets, 
numerically controlled 
8461.30.80 Broaching machines for working by removing metal or cermets, 
other than numerically controlled 
8461.40.10 Gear cutting machines for working by removing metal or cermets 
8461.40.50 Gear grinding or finishing machines for working by removing 
metal or cermets 
8461.50.40 Sawing or cutting-off machines for working by removing metal or 
cermets, numerically controlled 
8461.50.80 Sawing or cutting-off machines for working by removing metal or 
cermets, other than numerically controlled 
8461.90.30 Machine-tools for working by removing metal or cermets, nesoi, 
numerically controlled 
8461.90.60 Machine-tools for working by removing metal or cermets, nesoi, 
other than numerically controlled 
8462.11.00 Hot forming machines for forging, die forging (including presses) 
and hot hammers, closed die forging machines 
8462.19.00 Other hot forming machines for forging, die forging (including 
presses) and hot hammers (other than closed die forging 
machines), nesoi 
8462.22.00 Profile forming machines 
8462.23.00 Numerically controlled press brakes 
8462.24.00 Numerically controlled panel benders 

[Page 101]
101 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8462.25.00 Numerically controlled roll forming machines 
8462.26.00 Other numerically controlled bending, folding, straightening or 
flattening machines (o/t press brakes, panel benders, 
roll forming machines) 
8462.29.00 Other bending folding straightening or flattening machines (other 
than numerically controlled or profile forming 
machines), nesoi 
8462.32.10 Numerically controlled sitting lines and cut-to-length lines 
8462.32.50 Sitting lines and cut-to-length lines (other than numerically 
controlled), nesoi 
8462.33.00 Numerically controlled shearing machines 
8462.39.00 Shearing machines (other than numerically controlled), nesoi 
8462.42.00 Numerically controlled punching, notching or nibbling machines 
(excluding presses) for flat products 
8462.49.00 Other punching, notching or nibbling machines (excluding 
presses) for flat products, other than numerically controlled 
8462.51.00 Numerically controlled machines for working tube, pipe, hollow 
section and bar (excluding presses) 
8462.59.00 Other machines for working tube, pipe, hollow section and bar 
(excluding presses), other than numerically controlled 
8462.61.40 Hydraulic presses, numerically controlled 
8462.61.80 Hydraulic presses, not numerically controlled 
8462.62.40 Numerically controlled mechanical cold metal working presses 
8462.62.50 Other mechanical cold metal working presses, other than 
numerically controlled 
8462.63.40 Numerically controlled cold metal working servo-presses 
8462.63.80 Other cold metal working servo-presses, other than numerically 
controlled 
8462.69.40 Numerically controlled other cold metal working presses, nesoi 
8462.69.80 Other cold metal working presses, other than numerically 
controlled, nesoi 
8462.90.40 Other numerically controlled machines tools for working metal, 
nesoi 
8462.90.80 Other machines tools for working metal, other than numerically 
controlled, nesoi 
8463.10.00 Draw-benches for bars, tubes, profiles, wire or the like, for 
working metal or cermets, without removing material 
8463.20.00 Thread rolling machines for working metal or cermets, without 
removing material 
8463.30.00 Machines for working wire of metal or cermets, without removing 
material 

[Page 102]
102 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8463.90.00 Machine tools for working metal or cermets, without removing 
material, nesoi 
8464.10.01 Sawing machines for working stone, ceramics, concrete, asbestos-
cement or like mineral materials or for cold working glass 
8464.20.01 Grinding or polishing machines for working stone, ceramics, 
concrete, asbestos-cement or like mineral materials, or glass, nesoi 
8464.90.01 Machine tools for working stone, ceramics, concrete, asbestos-
cement or like mineral materials or for cold working glass, nesoi 
8465.10.00 Machines for working certain hard materials which can carry out 
different types of machining operations w/o tool change between 
operations 
8465.20.10 Machine centers for sawing, planing, milling, molding, grinding, 
sanding, polishing, drilling or mortising 
8465.20.50 Machine centers for bending or assembling 
8465.20.80 Machine centers, nesoi 
8465.91.00 Sawing machines for working wood, cork, bone, hard rubber, hard 
plastics or similar hard materials 
8465.92.00 Planing, milling or molding (by cutting) machines for working 
wood, cork, bone, hard rubber, hard plastics or similar hard 
materials 
8465.93.00 Grinding, sanding or polishing machines for working wood, cork, 
bone, hard rubber, hard plastics or similar hard materials 
8465.94.00 Bending or assembling machines for working wood, cork, bone 
hard rubber, hard plastics or similar hard materials 
8465.95.00 Drilling or mortising machines for working wood, cork, bone, 
hard rubber, hard plastics or similar hard materials 
8465.96.00 Splitting, slicing or paring machines for working wood, cork, 
bone, hard rubber, hard plastics or similar hard materials 
8465.99.02 Machine tools for working wood, cork, bone, hard rubber, hard 
plastics and similar hard materials, nesoi 
8468.20.10 Gas-operated machinery, apparatus and appliances, hand-directed 
or -controlled, used for soldering, brazing, welding or tempering, 
nesoi 
8468.20.50 Gas-operated machinery, apparatus and appliances, not hand-
directed or -controlled, used for soldering, brazing, 
welding or tempering, nesoi 
8468.80.10 Machinery and apparatus, hand-directed or -controlled, used for 
soldering, brazing or welding, not gas-operated 
8468.80.50 Machinery and apparatus other than hand-directed or -controlled, 
used for soldering, brazing or welding, not gas- operated 
8474.10.00 Sorting, screening, separating or washing machines for earth, 
stones, ores or other mineral substances in solid form 

[Page 103]
103 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8474.20.00 Crushing or grinding machines for earth, stones, ores or other 
mineral substances 
8474.31.00 Concrete or mortar mixers 
8474.32.00 Machines for mixing mineral substances with bitumen 
8474.39.00 Mixing or kneading machines for earth, stones, ores or other 
mineral substances, nesoi 
8474.80.00 Machinery for agglomerating, shaping or molding solid mineral 
fuels, or other mineral products; machines for 
forming sand foundry molds 
8475.10.00 Machines for assembling electric or electronic lamps, tubes or 
flashbulbs, in glass envelopes 
8475.21.00 Machines for making glass optical fibers and preforms thereof 
8475.29.00 Machines for manufacturing or hot working glass or glassware, 
nesoi 
8477.10.30 Injection-molding machines for manufacturing shoes of rubber or 
plastics 
8477.10.40 Injection-molding machines for use in the manufacture of video 
laser discs 
8477.10.90 Injection-molding machines of a type used for working or 
manufacturing products from rubber or plastics, nesoi 
8477.20.00 Extruders for working rubber or plastics or for the manufacture of 
products from these materials, nesoi 
8477.30.00 Blow-molding machines for working rubber or plastics or for the 
manufacture of products from these materials 
8477.40.01 Vacuum-molding and other thermoforming machines for working 
rubber or plastics or for manufacture of products 
from these materials, nesoi 
8477.51.00 Machinery for molding or retreading pneumatic tires or for 
molding or otherwise forming inner tubes 
8477.59.01 Machinery for molding or otherwise forming rubber or plastics 
other than for molding or retreading pneumatic tires, nesoi 
8477.80.01 Machinery for working rubber or plastics or for the manufacture 
of products from these materials, nesoi 
8478.10.00 Machinery for preparing or making up tobacco, nesoi 
8479.10.00 Machinery for public works, building or the like, nesoi 
8479.20.00 Machinery for the extraction or preparation of animal or fixed 
vegetable fats or oils, nesoi 
8479.30.00 Presses for making particle board or fiber building board of wood 
or other ligneous materials, and mach. for treat. wood or cork, 
nesoi 
8479.40.00 Rope- or cable-making machines nesoi 

[Page 104]
104 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8479.50.00 Industrial robots, nesoi 
8479.81.00 Machines and mechanical appliances for treating metal, including 
electric wire coil-winders, nesoi 
8479.82.00 Machines for mixing, kneading, crushing, grinding, screening, 
sifting, homogenizing, emulsifying or stirring, nesoi 
8479.83.00 Cold isostatic presses, nesoi 
8479.89.83 Machines for the manufacture of optical media 
8479.89.92 Automated electronic component placement machines for making 
printed circuit assemblies 
8479.89.95 Other machines and mechanical appliances having individual 
functions, not specified or included elsewhere in chapter 84, nesoi 
8486.10.00 Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of boules or wafers 
8486.20.00 Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of semiconductor 
devices or electronic integrated circuits 
8486.30.00 Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of flat panel displays 
8486.40.00 Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of masks and reticles 
and for the assembly of electronic integrated circuits 
8514.11.00 Hot isostatic presses 
8514.19.00 Other resistance heated industrial or laboratory furnaces and 
ovens, other than hot isostatic presses 
8514.20.40 Industrial or laboratory microwave ovens for making hot drinks or 
for cooking or heating food 
8514.20.60 Industrial or laboratory microwave ovens, nesoi 
8514.20.80 Industrial or laboratory furnaces and ovens (other than 
microwave) functioning by induction or dielectric loss 
8514.31.10 Electron beam furnaces for making printed circuits or printed 
circuit assemblies 
8514.31.90 Electron beam furnaces, other than for making printed circuits or 
printed circuit assemblies 
8514.32.10 Plasma and vacuum arc furnaces for making printed circuits or 
printed circuit assemblies 
8514.32.90 Plasma and vacuum arc furnaces, other than for making printed 
circuits or printed circuit assemblies 
8514.39.10 Other industrial furnaces and ovens for making printed circuits or 
printed circuit assemblies 
8514.39.90 Other industrial or laboratory electric industrial or laboratory 
furnaces and ovens nesoi 
8514.40.00 Industrial or laboratory induction or dielectric heating equipment 
nesoi 
8515.11.00 Electric soldering irons and guns 

[Page 105]
105 
HTSUS 
Subheading Product Description 
8515.19.00 Electric brazing or soldering machines and apparatus, other than 
soldering irons and guns 
8515.21.00 Electric machines and apparatus for resistance welding of metal, 
fully or partly automatic 
8515.29.00 Electric machines and apparatus for resistance welding of metal, 
other than fully or partly automatic 
8515.31.00 Electric machines and apparatus for arc (including plasma arc) 
welding of metals, fully or partly automatic 
8515.39.00 Electric machines and apparatus for arc (including plasma arc) 
welding of metals, other than fully or partly automatic 
8515.80.00 Electric welding apparatus nesoi,and electric machines and 
apparatus for hot spraying metals or sintered metal carbides 
8543.30.20 Electrical machines and apparatus for electroplating, electrolysis, 
or electrophoresis for making printed circuits 
8543.30.90 Other electrical machines and apparatus for electroplating, 
electrolysis, or electrophoresis 
8543.70.20 Physical vapor deposition apparatus, nesoi 
8543.70.60 Electrical machines and apparatus nesoi, designed for connection 
to telegraphic or telephonic apparatus, instruments or networks 
8543.70.71 Electric luminescent lamps 
8543.70.97 Plasma cleaner machines that remove organic contaminants from 
electron microscopy specimens and holders 
8543.70.98 Other electrical machines and apparatus, having individual 
functions, nesoi 
 
 
 
 