[Page 1]
 
1 
Billing Code 3390-F4 
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE 
Notice of Modification and Proposed Modification of Section 301 Action: China’s 
Targeting of the Maritime, Logistics, and Shipbuilding Sectors for Dominance 
AGENCY: Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR). 
ACTION: Notice of modification, proposed modification of action, and request for 
comments. 
SUMMARY:  
In notices published on April 23, 2025, and June 12, 2025, the U.S. Trade Representative 
proposed certain modifications to the actions being taken in this investigation. This notice 
announces a determination by the U.S. Trade Representative to modify the action by: 
altering the fee basis and rate for vehicle carrier vessels as provided in Annex III of the 
April 23 notice, and by exempting operators of vessels in the Maritime Security Program; 
eliminating paragraph (j) of Annex IV of the April 23 notice, which provided that USTR 
could direct the suspension of licensing for liquefied natural gas (LNG) shipments if the 
schedule of restrictions set forth in Annex IV was not met; and imposing additional duties 
of 100 percent on ship-to-shore (STS) cranes and duties of 100 percent on certain cargo 
handling equipment of China as described in Annex V.A of this notice. In addition, the 
U.S. Trade Representative is proposing further modifications to certain aspects of the 
responsive action. This notice announces the opening of a public comment docket for 
interested parties to comment on the proposed further modifications. This notice also sets 
forth ministerial clarifications to provide greater certainty on the operation of the action 
being taken in this investigation. 

[Page 2]
 
2 
DATES:  
April 17, 2025: The removal of Annex IV, paragraph (j), is effective as of this date. 
October 10, 2025: Comment period opens regarding the proposed further modifications 
to the action, as provided in this notice. The service fee schedule modifications to Annex 
III of the April 23 notice, as provided in this Notice, are effective as of this date. 
November 9, 2025: Additional duties on STS cranes and intermodal chassis and parts, as 
provided for in Annex V.A of this Notice, are effective as of this date. 
November 10, 2025: To be assured of consideration, submit written comments regarding 
the proposed modifications to the action being taken in this investigation. 
ADDRESSES: Submit documents in response to this notice, through USTR’s electronic 
portal: https://comments.ustr.gov/s/. The docket number for written comments an is 
USTR–2025–0017.  
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Philip Butler, Chair of the Section 
301 Committee; Thomas Au, Associate General Counsel; or David Salkeld, Assistant 
General Counsel at (202) 395-5725. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 
A. Background 
For background on the proceedings in this investigation, please see the prior 
notices issued in this investigation, including 89 FR 29424 (April 22, 2024), 90 FR 8089 
(January 23, 2025), and 90 FR 10843 (February 27, 2025). 
On April 17, 2025, pursuant to sections 301(b), 301(c), and 304(a) of the Trade 
Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2411(b), 2411(c), and 2414(a)), and following 
consideration of public comments, as well as consultations with advisory committees and 

[Page 3]
 
3 
the Section 301 Committee, the U.S. Trade Representative determined to take action in 
this investigation. See 90 FR 17114 (April 23, 2025) (April 23 notice).  
 Through Executive Order 14269, Restoring America’s Maritime Dominance , the 
President directed the U.S. Trade Representative to consider proposing the following 
actions in this investigation: “(i) tariffs on ship-to-shore cranes manufactured, assembled, 
or made using components of PRC origin, or manufactured anywhere in the world by a 
company owned, controlled, or substantially influenced by a PRC national; and (ii) tariffs 
on other cargo handling equipment.” 
 Consistent with the President’s direction in Executive Order 14269, the U.S. 
Trade Representative proposed additional duties on STS cranes and on an initial list of 
other cargo handling equipment. See 90 FR 17114, 17124–5. On May 19, 2025, USTR 
held a public hearing regarding the proposed additional duties and received testimony 
from seven witnesses. 
 On June 6, 2025, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed to modify the action in 
this investigation in several respects, including by eliminating paragraph (j) of Annex IV 
of the April 23 notice, retroactive to April 17, 2025. See 90 FR 24856–60 (June 12, 2025) 
(June 12 notice). Under that provision, USTR could direct the suspension of LNG export 
licenses until the terms of paragraph (f) of Annex IV were met. The June 12 notice also 
included a proposal to modify Annex III of the April 23 notice, by altering the basis of 
the fee in the annex to net tons and by providing for a targeted coverage provision to 
exempt operators of vessels in the Maritime Security Program. 

[Page 4]
 
4 
B.  Modification of Action 
 Section 307(a)(1) of the Trade Act authorizes the Trade Representative to modify 
any action being taken under Section 301, subject to the specific direction of the 
President, including if such action being taken under Section 301(b) is no longer 
appropriate. The term “appropriate” refers to Section 301(b), which requires the U.S. 
Trade Representative to “take all appropriate and feasible action authorized under 
[section 301(c)] to obtain the elimination of [the] act, policy, or practice.” The specific 
action that will obtain the elimination of an act, policy, or practice is a matter of 
predictive judgment, to be exercised by the U.S. Trade Representative, and subject to any 
specific direction of the President. Such appropriate action includes action to obtain a 
reversal of the investigated acts, policies, or practices. 
 In consideration of the public comments received in response to the April 23 
notice and June 12 notice, advice from the Section 301 Committee, and consultations 
with petitioners and advisory committees, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined 
that certain aspects of the action are no longer appropriate, and that changes to the action 
are warranted to obtain a reversal of the investigated acts, policies, or practices, 
considering the potential to reduce dependence on China, and the specific direction of the 
President to consider imposing tariffs on other cargo handling equipment of China, which 
may significantly increase leverage on China to eliminate the investigated acts, policies, 
and practices. 
 The U.S. Trade Representative has determined that it is appropriate to modify the 
action by: 

[Page 5]
 
5 
• altering the fee basis and service fee rate, and providing certain targeted coverage, 
for Annex III of the April 23 notice;  
• eliminating paragraph (j) of Annex IV of the April 23 notice, retroactive to April 
17, 2025; and 
• imposing duties on STS cranes, intermodal chassis, and chassis parts of China, as 
described in Annex V.A of this Notice. 
B.  Responses to Significant Comments 
 Below, USTR responds to comments on the proposed modifications that raise 
significant issues.  
Proposed Modifications to Annex III of the April 23 Notice 
Fee Basis and Rate 
 USTR requested comments on the potential impact of a fee on vessel operators of 
foreign-built vehicle carriers based on net tons, as well as the suggested amount of the 
fee, and the implications of a targeted coverage provision for the Maritime Security 
Program and suggested duration for such targeted coverage.  
 Several responsive comments supported modifying the basis for the service fee 
from Car Equivalent Units (CEU) to net tons, as a CEU basis could be manipulated and is 
assessed based on outdated vehicle measurements, whereas net tons are a measurement 
used by the United States Government. Some comments cautioned that a net-tons-based 
service fee could result in disproportionately higher fees on roll-on/roll-off vessels, as net 
tonnage is a measurement of interior volume, and roll-on/roll-off vessels have larger 
enclosed interiors proportionate to their overall size compared with other classes of 
vessels. Some comments suggested applying the fee on a “Car Unit” discharged basis. 

[Page 6]
 
6 
Some comments raised concerns of potential increased costs and possible impact on 
exports arising from the service fee. A number of comments raised concerns that the 
proposed service fee rate of $14 per net ton is too low, and calculated that the proposed 
rate of $14 per net ton is less than the projected the Car Equivalent Unit basis fee 
imposed in Annex III of the April 23 notice. Two comments affirmatively supported the 
$14 per net ton fee level. 
In response to comments that argued that the service fee on vessel operators of 
foreign-built vehicle carriers was not subject to full public consultation, USTR disagrees. 
Regarding comments that argued that the Trade Representative’s determination to apply a 
service fee on vessel operators of foreign-built vehicle carriers was not subject to full 
public consultation, these comments are outside the scope of proposed modifications on 
which USTR requested comments. However, the service fee on vessel operators of 
foreign-built vehicle carriers was a logical outgrowth of USTR’s proposed service fee on 
maritime transport operators. See 90 FR 10843, 10844–5 (Feb. 27, 2025). Initially, USTR 
proposed a service fee on maritime transport operators, including potential fees on a 
nondiscriminatory basis, and provided a number of alternatives. USTR requested 
comments on the alternatives and specifically whether the proposed fees were appropriate 
and would be practicable or effective to obtain the elimination of China’s acts, policies, 
and practices. Id. at 10845. Based on the comments received, the Trade Representative 
determined that a service fee on vessel operators of foreign-built vehicle carriers would 
be effective in obtaining the elimination of China’s acts, policies, and practices. 
 Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 Committee, 
the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to change the basis and rate of the service 

[Page 7]
 
7 
fee on vessel operators of foreign-built vehicle carriers. The U.S. Trade Representative 
has determined to change the basis of the service fee from a Car Equivalent Unit standard 
to net tons. Regarding the fee rate, the Trade Representative has determined to set the 
service fee rate to $46 per net ton as of October 14, 2025, and limiting the total collection 
of this service fee to five times per calendar year, per vessel. These modifications will 
address concerns regarding unfair manipulation of a Car Equivalent Unit and the 
establishment of a net ton rate that is too low, which would limit the effectiveness of the 
action, and will provide additional leverage to encourage China to eliminate the 
investigated acts, policies, and practices. 
Targeted Coverage for Operators of Maritime  Security Program Vessels and Operators of 
U.S. Government Vessels 
 USTR received comments both in support of and opposing providing targeted 
coverage exempting operators of Maritime Security Program vessels from the Annex III 
fee. Comments did not oppose targeted coverage as applied to operators of U.S. 
Government vessels. Some comments indicated that providing targeted coverage would 
reduce the effectiveness of the responsive action, provide a benefit to operators who have 
acquired Chinese-built vessels, and negatively impact the U.S. shipbuilding industrial 
base. One comment suggested that USTR should adopt an outright prohibition on the 
utilization of Chinese-built vessels by Maritime Security Program operators in order to 
qualify for targeted coverage under this annex. Other comments indicated that a lack of 
targeted coverage for operators of Maritime Security Program vessels would result in 

[Page 8]
 
8 
operational changes that would reduce the overall size of the U.S.-flag commercial fleet 
and reduce the availability of such vessels to respond to national security needs. 
 Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 Committee, 
the U.S. Trade Representative has determined that it is appropriate to provide targeted 
coverage to operators of Maritime Security Program vessels to maintain incentives for 
maximal use of the U.S. flag and to ensure availability of such vessels for national 
security purposes, as well as to operators of U.S. Government vessels. In consideration of 
the comments that the targeted coverage provision should not incentivize future use of 
Chinese and other non-U.S.-built vessels, this targeted coverage provision will expire, 
unless renewed, on April 18, 2029. 
Proposed Modifications to Annex IV of the April 23 Notice 
 In the June 12 notice, the U.S. Trade Representative proposed to modify the 
action by eliminating paragraph (j) of Annex IV of the April 23 notice, which provided 
that USTR could direct the suspension of licensing for LNG shipments if the schedule of 
restrictions set forth in Annex IV was not met. USTR requested comments on the 
potential impact of this proposed modification. 
 Some comments supported t he removal of paragraph (j) of Annex IV. Other 
comments argued for retaining this enforcement provision. Some comments suggested 
instead applying a service fee if the LNG maritime transport requirements are not met. 
One comment suggested a 60-day market testing period for the potential restrictions 
under paragraph (j). 
 Considering the public comments and the advice of the Section 301 Committee, 
the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to eliminate paragraph (j) of Annex IV, 

[Page 9]
 
9 
retroactive to April 17, 2025. This modification will avoid potential short-term 
disruptions to the LNG sector while promoting investments in U.S. shipbuilding capacity 
and production of LNG vessels. USTR views LNG exports as an important contribution 
to the U.S. economy and U.S. economic security. USTR observes that significant 
domestic demand for new LNG vessels coupled with increased investment in U.S. 
shipbuilding capacity will result in the successful construction of LNG vessels in the 
United States in the coming years, ensuring that U.S. energy exports can be transported 
on U.S.-built vessels. Some industry assessments estimate that more than 240 LNG 
carriers are needed to carry U.S. LNG exports beyond those already on order, providing 
new opportunities to enhance American energy security.1 USTR is closely monitoring the 
production and availability of U.S.-flagged, -operated, or -built vessels, and USTR will 
also continue to promote the competitiveness and resiliency of the U.S. LNG industry in 
a manner consistent with U.S. policy goals, including through additional measures 
designed to support the expansion of the U.S. shipbuilding sector. 
Proposed Duties on STS Cranes and Other Cargo Handling Equipment in the April 23 
Notice 
Consistent with the President’s direction in Executive Order 14269, USTR 
requested comments on “[a]dditional duties of up to 100 percent on STS cranes 
manufactured, assembled, or made using components of Chinese origin, or manufactured 
anywhere in the world by a company owned, controlled, or substantially influenced by a 
Chinese national, as described in Annex V [of the April 23 notice],” and [a]dditional 
duties of up to 100 percent on certain cargo handling equipment of China, as specified in 
 
1 See, e.g., BRS Group Annual Review 2025, available at https://brsshipbrokers.com/publications.  

[Page 10]
 
10 
Annex V [of the April 23 notice].” The action with respect to STS cranes was proposed 
to be imposed on a nondiscriminatory basis. See 90 FR 17114, 17121; 19 U.S.C. 
2411(c)(3)(A). 
STS Cranes  
Several comments were generally supportive of additional tariffs on STS cranes. 
Some comments suggested adjustments, such as a 3-year delay in tariffs, allowing a 
modified duty drawback provision, or adding a “grandfather” provision for STS cranes 
that have already been contracted. Some comments recommended against imposing 
tariffs on STS cranes. Other comments suggested a number of adjustments to the 
proposed tariff on STS cranes, such as delaying implementation, differentiating the tariff 
between STS cranes with or without Chinese information technology equipment, or 
excluding the value of U.S.-origin content. One comment suggested expanding the scope 
of the proposed tariff to cover embedded sensors and software. Some comments raised 
concerns about the potential harm to the U.S. economy and global supply chains should 
STS cranes be subject to additional tariffs. 
Considering the specific direction of President, the public comments, and the 
advice of the Section 301 Committee, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to 
impose additional duties of 100 percent on STS cranes as described in Annex V.A to this 
notice. Increasing Section 301 duties on STS cranes will reduce exposure to and 
dependence on Chinese sources, strengthen U.S. supply chain resilience and economic 
security, and provide additional leverage with China to eliminate the investigated acts, 
policies, and practices. In response to comments suggesting a delayed implementation, 
USTR notes that the report in this investigation assesses that there are national and 

[Page 11]
 
11 
economic security risks arising from dependence on China in the maritime, shipbuilding, 
and logistics sectors, including for STS cranes. In light of these concerns, the U.S. Trade 
Representative has determined it is not appropriate to defer higher tariffs on STS cranes, 
nor to differentiate Chinese information technology from unfairly priced steel 
superstructure or other STS crane components. In response to comments expressing 
concern regarding STS cranes ordered in advance of the proposed action, the U.S. Trade 
Representative has determined not to impose the additional duties of 100 percent on STS 
cranes that fulfill contracts executed prior to April 17, 2025, and that enter the United 
States prior to April 18, 2027. 
Intermodal Shipping Containers 
Some comments indicated that tariffs on intermodal shipping containers may 
negatively impact domestic carriers as containers are largely imported for consumption 
by domestic carriers for domestic intermodal shipping while containers used for 
international maritime transport are not imported. One comment asserted that Chinese 
entities sell containers below the cost of the steel used to produce containers. Other 
comments raised concerns that tariffs on intermodal shipping containers could reduce 
U.S. competitiveness as well as limit the use of such containers for military applications 
or disaster relief efforts. 
Considering the specific direction of the President, the public comments, and the 
advice of the Section 301 Committee, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined not 
to impose additional duties on intermodal shipping containers at this time in light of the 
potential impact on domestic carriers for domestic intermodal shipping and considering 

[Page 12]
 
12 
that action may, at present, provide limited additional leverage with China to eliminate 
the investigated acts, policies, and practices. 
Intermodal Chassis and Parts 
One comment argued that the proposed tariffs will not have significant impact on 
building a U.S.-based supply chain and raised economic impact concerns. One comment 
argued that the imposition of tariffs would be superfluous as the imposition of anti-
dumping and countervailing duties on chassis from China has had a major impact on the 
market share of these products in the United States. Despite these duties, one comment 
noted that imports of chassis from China continue to represent 17.8 percent of chassis 
imports. Some comments have raised concerns that Chinese entities are seeking to evade 
existing duties and advocated for extending tariff coverage to chassis and chassis 
components where the importer fails to attest that the intermodal chassis or parts were not 
manufactured by a company owned or controlled by a Chinese person. 
 Considering the specific direction of the President,  public comments, and the 
advice of the Section 301 Committee, the U.S. Trade Representative has determined to 
impose duties of 100 percent on certain intermodal chassis and parts thereof. U.S. 
companies import a significant percentage of chassis from China despite additional duties 
imposed through other trade remedies, indicating a continued dependence on China. 
Increasing Section 301 duties on certain intermodal chassis and parts will reduce 
exposure to and dependence on Chinese sources, strengthen U.S. supply chain resilience 

[Page 13]
 
13 
and economic security, and provide additional leverage with China to eliminate the 
investigated acts, policies and practices. 
C.  Ministerial Clarifications 
 In order to clarify the operation of the actions in this investigation, the following 
ministerial clarifications are provided: 
Clarifications Applicable to Annexes I, II, and III 
For greater certainty, the term “string” as used in Annex I, II, or III means a 
“string of port calls”. 
For greater certainty, if a vessel is excepted from entry under 19 U.S.C. 1441, or 
otherwise exempt from entry, then it is not subject to the fees in Annexes I, II, or III. 
For greater certainty and for purposes of application of the Section 301 service 
fees under this responsive action, a vessel that is only transiting the Panama Canal 
(including receiving bunkers or facilitating a crew change) is not subject to the 
requirements for entry from a foreign port and would be considered coastwise for entry 
and clearance requirements. Exchanging cargo or passengers for hire in the Panama 
Canal would subject the vessel to entry from a foreign port. Any arrival after a stop in an 
intermediate foreign port to load or unload cargo or passengers for hire would subject the 
vessel to entry from a foreign port. 
Clarifications Applicable to Annex II 
 For greater certainty, the Annex II, Targeted Coverage, paragraph (ii) term 
“vessels arriving empty or in ballast” applies when the vessel does not have any cargo or 
passengers on board. 

[Page 14]
 
14 
 For greater certainty, the Annex II, Targeted Coverage, paragraph (iii) term 
applies in the following manner: 
• Any vessel subject to Annex II that is principally identified as a fully cellular 
container vessel (such as a vessel properly identified under International 
Classification of Ships by Type (ICST) code 310) with a capacity of 4,000 
Twenty-Foot Equivalent Units or less may be eligible for the targeted coverage 
provision of Annex II, Targeted Coverage, paragraph (iii). 
• Any vessel subject to Annex II that is principally identified as a bulk carrier (such 
as vessels properly identified under ICST code 229) with an individual bulk 
capacity of 80,000 deadweight tons or less may be eligible for the targeted 
coverage provision of Annex II, Targeted Coverage, paragraph (iii). 
• Any other vessel subject to Annex II with a capacity of 55,000 deadweight tons or 
less (as properly identified on the vessels’ register) may be eligible for the 
targeted coverage provision of Annex II, Targeted Coverage, paragraph (iii). 
For greater certainty, the Annex II, Targeted Coverage, paragraph (iv) provision 
(referring to vessels entering a U.S. port in the continental United States from a voyage of 
less than 2,000 nautical miles from a foreign port or point) is assessed based on the 
distance actually traveled from furthest foreign port call. For illustrative purposes: 
A 6,000 TEU fully-cellular Chinese-built container vessel subject to Annex II 
operates on a regular rotation making calls on the following route: Port of Singapore, SG; 
Lázaro Cárdenas, MX; Long Beach, CA, US; Oakland, CA, US; before returning to the 
Port of Singapore, SG. The vessel exchanges cargo at each of these calls. The voyage or 
rotation is assessed based on the farthest foreign port call: Port of Singapore, SG. This 

[Page 15]
 
15 
illustrative vessel would be subject to the Annex II fee upon arrival at a U.S. port or point 
from outside the customs territory of the United States on a particular string, that is, upon 
arrival at Long Beach, CA, US. The Annex II, Targeted Coverage, paragraph (iv) 
provision does not apply in this hypothetical circumstance. 
For greater certainty, the Annex II, Targeted Coverage, paragraph (iii) term 
“vessels with . . . an individual bulk capacity of 80,000 deadweight tons” may apply to 
both liquid bulk and dry bulk vessels, e.g., ICST Codes 210 (Other Bulk/Oil Carrier), 211 
(Ore/Bulk/Oil), 212 (Oil/Ore), 213 (Bulk/Oil), 220 (Other Bulk Carrier), 221 (Ore 
Carrier), 222 (Bulk/Container Carrier), 229 (Other Bulk Carrier), and 323 (Irradiated Fuel 
Carrier). 
For greater certainty, the Annex II, Targeted Coverage, paragraph (vi) term 
“specialized or special purpose-built vessels for the transport of chemical substances in 
bulk liquid forms” may apply in circumstances when the vessel is principally identified 
as ICST Code 120 (Chemical Tanker). 
Clarifications Applicable to Annex III 
 Annex III, paragraph (d), defines a subject “Vehicle carrier” as “A vessel 
principally identified as a ‘Vehicle Carrier’ on CBP Form 1300, or its electronic 
equivalent. For information only, a vessel is normally principally identified as a vehicle 
carrier when the vessel is designed for wheeled or tracked cargo that can load itself on-
board. Cargo generally drives onto the vessel through decks via ramps, rather than being 
lifted through hatches.” For greater certainty, a “Vehicle carrier” may include vessels 
under ICST codes 325 (Vehicle Carrier), 332 (Ro-Ro Passenger), 333 (Other Ro-Ro 
Cargo), or 338 (Ro-Ro Container). 

[Page 16]
 
16 
E.  Further Proposed Modifications 
 Section 307 of the Trade Act provides that “[t]he Trade Representative may 
modify or terminate any action, subject to the specific direction, if any, of the President 
with respect to such action, that is being taken under [Section 301] if . . . such action is 
being taken under section 301(b) of this title and is no longer appropriate.” Under Section 
301(b), actions may no longer be appropriate if they may result in impairments to other 
key U.S. interests; may not adequately reduce dependencies on China in the maritime, 
logistics, and shipbuilding sectors; or may present administrability concerns. For Annex 
I, USTR proposes a new targeted coverage provision in order to allay concerns about the 
Annex’s impact on specialized vessels carrying ethane and other natural gas liquids. For 
Annex II, USTR proposes an adjustment to the targeted coverage provision applicable to 
“Lakers” vessels. For Annex III, USTR proposes to add a targeted coverage provision 
addressing smaller vessels which support certain short-sea U.S. exports. In order to 
further implement the President’s direction in Executive Order 14269, and in order to 
make effective the additional duties imposed in the Notice, USTR proposes additional 
potential tariff lines of cargo handling equipment. 
 The U.S. Trade Representative has determined to propose that it is appropriate to 
modify the action in this investigation as follows: 
•  Annex I: Add a targeted coverage provision for certain ethane and liquefied 
petroleum gas (LPG) carriers; 
• Annex II: Remove targeted coverage for certain maritime transport by Chinese-
built “Lakers” vessels; 

[Page 17]
 
17 
• Annex III: Add a targeted coverage provision for vessels of up to 10,000 DWT. 
The targeted coverage provision would expire, unless renewed, on April 18, 2029; 
and, 
• Annex V.B: Add a new Annex V.B and impose additional tariffs of up to 150 
percent on other cargo handling equipment, including: rubber tire gantry cranes, 
rail mounted gantry cranes, automatic staking cranes, reachstackers, straddle 
carriers, terminal tractors, top handlers (which may also be referred to as top 
loaders), and parts of these machines. 
F.  Request for Public Comments 
 In accordance with Section 307(a)(2)(b) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2414(b)), 
and consistent with specific direction of the President, USTR invites comments from 
interested persons with respect to the proposed modifications as described in Section E 
above and as provided in the appendix to this Notice. 
 USTR requests comments with respect to the following considerations in relation 
to proposed modifications: 
• For Annex I: the potential implications of adding a targeted coverage provision 
for certain ethane and LPG carriers; 
• For Annex II: the potential implications of removing targeted coverage for certain 
maritime transport by Chinese-built “Lakers” vessels; 
• For Annex III: the potential implications of adding a targeted coverage provision 
for vessels of up to 10,000 DWT, the vessel tonnage for which targeted coverage 
should be provided, and duration for such coverage; and, 
• For Annex V.B:   

[Page 18]
 
18 
o The specific products to be subject to increased duties, including whether 
the tariff subheadings and product descriptions listed in Annex V, Item I, 
should be retained or removed, or whether tariff subheadings not currently 
on the list should be added; 
o The level of the increase, if any, in the rates of duty; 
o The time period in which increased duties should take effect, such as in 
180 days or over a phase-in period of 6 to 24 months. 
In commenting on the proposed modifications, USTR requests that commenters 
specifically address whether the action would be practicable or effective to obtain the 
elimination of China’s acts, policies, and practices. USTR also requests any economic, 
quantitative, or other analysis that may further USTR’s evaluation of the proposed 
modifications in this notice. Commenters may provide views regarding “effects of the 
modification . . . and whether any modification . . . of the action is appropriate.” 19 
U.S.C. 2417(a)(2). 
 To be assured of consideration, you must submit written comments on the 
proposed modifications by November 10, 2025. 
G.   Procedure for Written Submissions 
 You must submit written comments and rebuttal comments using docket number 
USTR-2025-0017 on the electronic portal at https://comments.ustr.gov/s/. To submit 
written comments, use the docket on the portal entitled “Request for Comments 
Concerning Further Proposed Modifications of Action in the Section 301 Investigation of 
China’s Targeting of the Maritime, Logistics, and Shipbuilding Sectors for Dominance”.  

[Page 19]
 
19 
 You do not need to establish an account to submit comments. The first screen of 
each docket allows you to enter identification and contact information. Third-party 
organizations such as law firms, trade associations, or customs brokers, should identify 
the full legal name of the organization they represent, and identify the primary point of 
contact for the submission. Information fields are optional; however, your comment or 
request may not be considered if insufficient information is provided. 
 Fields with a gray Business Confidential Information (BCI) notation are for BCI 
information which will not be made publicly available. Fields with a green (Public) 
notation will be viewable by the public. 
 After entering the identification and contact information, you can complete the 
remainder of the comment, or any portion of it by clicking “Next.” You may upload 
documents at the end of the form and indicate whether USTR should treat the documents 
as business confidential or public information. 
 Any page containing BCI must be clearly marked ‘ BUSINESS 
CONFIDENTIAL’ on the top of that page and the submission should clearly indicate, via 
brackets, highlighting, or other means, the specific information that is BCI. If you request 
business confidential treatment, you must certify in writing that disclosure of the 
information would endanger trade secrets or profitability, and that the information would 
not customarily be released to the public. 
 Parties uploading attachments containing BCI also must submit a public version 
of their comments. If these procedures are not sufficient to protect BCI or otherwise 
protect business interests, please contact the USTR Section 301 support line at (202) 395-
5725 to discuss whether alternative arrangements are possible. 

[Page 20]
 
20 
 USTR will post attachments uploaded to the docket for public inspection, except 
for properly designated BCI. You can view submissions on USTR’s electronic portal at 
https://comments.ustr.gov/s/ by entering docket number USTR-2025-0017 in the search 
field on the home page. 
H.  Deferred Service Fees Payment for Certain Subject Operators Under Annex 
I or Annex III 
 
Vessels principally identified under ICST codes 130 (Other Liquified Gas 
Carrier), 131 (LPG Carrier), 139 (Other Liquefied Gas Carrier), 325 (Vehicle Carrier), 
332 (Ro-Ro Passenger), 333 (Other Ro-Ro Cargo), and 338 (Ro-Ro Container) that may 
be subject to fee modifications proposed in this notice for either Annex I or Annex III of 
the April 23 notice may defer payment of Annex I or Annex III service fees from October 
14, 2025, through December 10, 2025. 
I.  Ongoing Monitoring  
The U.S. Trade Representative will continue to monitor the appropriateness of the 
actions being taken in the investigation, the effects of the such action, and the 
effectiveness of the actions in obtaining the elimination of the investigated acts, policies, 
and practices, including to end or reverse the investigated conduct. Any decision to 
further modify the actions in this investigation may be based on a range of considerations 
including vessel availability, economic impacts, international impacts, and economic 
security, among others. 
In considering possible modifications, the U.S. Trade Representative will also 
consider the progress of policies under Executive Order 14269, “Restoring America’s 
Maritime Dominance,” as relevant to this investigation, including coordination with allies 
and partners regarding the actions taken in this investigation and efforts to reduce 

[Page 21]
 
21 
dependencies on adversaries through capital investments in U.S. shipbuilding and the 
establishment of a reliable funding source for programs under the Maritime Action Plan. 
If modification to the action may be appropriate, the U.S. Trade Representative 
may consider the comments received in response to previously proposed responsive 
actions, as appropriate. 
 
 
Jennifer Thornton 
General Counsel, 
Office of the United States Trade Representative. 
  

[Page 22]
 
22 
Annex III of the April 23 notice is modified as follows: 
“Collections, supplemental payments, and refunds – 
(h) Time and place of liability. Subje ct to the coverage and special rules of this Annex, 
on or before the entry of a non-U.S. built Vehicle Carrier vessel at the first U.S. port or 
place from outside the customs territory on a particular string, the vessel operator must 
pay: 
 
Effect
ive as of April 17, 2025, a fee of $0 per net ton on the entering non-U.S. built 
Vehicle Carrier. vessel.  
 
Effective as of Oct ober 14, 2025, a fee in the amount of $150 per Car Equivalent Unit 
(CEU) capacity of $46 per net ton on the entering non-U.S. built vessel Vehicle Carrier. 
 
The fee will be charged up to five times per calendar year, per vessel.” 
 
* * * 
[Editorial note: the following is inserted after paragraph (k) of Annex III of the April 23 
notice]  
 
“Targeted Coverage 
The service fees imposed in this Annex do not apply to the following vessels subject to 
this Annex: 
 
(i) U.S.-owned or U.S.-fl agged vessels enrolled in the Maritime Security Program.  This 
provision will expire, unless renewed, on April 18, 2029. 
 
(ii) U.S. Government vessels.  A government vessel means a vessel owned by the U.S. 
Government and operated directly by the Government or for the Government by an agent 
or contractor, including a privately owned U.S.-flag vessel under bareboat charter to the 
Government.” 
 
Annex IV of the April 23 notice is modified as follows: 
 
“(j) Suspension of Export Licenses. I f the terms of paragraph (f) of this Annex are not 
met, then USTR may direct the suspension of LNG export licenses until the terms of 
paragraph (f) of this Annex are met.” 
 
Annex IV of the April 23 notice, paragraph (k), is re-numbered paragraph (j). 
 
Tariffs on STS Cranes and Other Cargo Handling Equipment 
Note: The product descriptions that are contained in this section are provided for 
informational purposes only, and are not intended to delimit in any way the scope of the 
action. In all cases, the formal language in Annex V.A governs the tariff treatment of 

[Page 23]
 
23 
products covered by the action. Any questions regarding the scope of particular HTS 
subheadings should be referred to U.S. Customs and Border Protection. 
 
HTSUS 
Subheading 
or statistical 
reporting 
number 
Product Description Rate Timing 
9903.91.14 
(8426.19.00) – 
duties assessed 
 
9903.91.15 – 
duties not 
assessed 
 
 
 
* 9903.91.16 
(grandfathered) 
STS cranes manufactured, assembled, or 
made using components of Chinese 
origin, or manufactured anywhere in the 
world by a company owned, controlled, 
or substantially influenced by a Chinese 
national;* 
* Except for such cranes provided for in 
subheading 8426.19.00, that are fulfilling 
in whole or in part an executed contract 
for sale dated prior to April 17, 2025, for 
goods that are entered for consumption, 
or withdrawn from warehouse for 
consumption, in the United States prior 
to April 17, 2027.‡ 
100% 
 
 
 
 
November 9, 
2025 
9903.91.12 
(8716.39.0090) 
Intermodal Chassis: Trailers and semi-
trailers; other vehicles, not mechanically 
propelled; and parts thereof; other; 
other.† 
100% November 9, 
2025 
9903.91.12 
(8716.90.30) 
Intermodal Chassis Parts: Trailers and 
semi-trailers; other vehicles, not 
mechanically propelled; and parts 
thereof, castors, other than those of 
heading 8302.† 
100% November 9, 
2025 
9903.91.12 
(8716.90.50) 
Intermodal Chassis Parts: Trailers and 
semi-trailers; other vehicles, not 
mechanically propelled; and parts 
thereof, other parts.† 
100% November 9, 
2025 
‡We note that by claiming entry under the subheadings provided in Annex V.A., the 
importer of record attests that the imported cranes satisfy the criteria for that subheading. 
***** 
 
† Scope includes chassis and subassemblies thereof for carriage of containers, or other payloads (including 
self-supporting payloads) for road, marine, and/or rail transport.  Scope exclude s dry van trailers, 
refrigerated van trailers, and flatbed trailers. 

[Page 24]
 
24 
Annex V.A: Tariffs on STS Cranes and Other Cargo Handling Equipment 
TO MODIFY CHAPTER 99 OF THE HARMONIZED TARIFF SCHEDULE OF 
THE UNITED STATES 
 
Effective with respect to goods of China entered for consumption, or withdrawn from 
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on November 9, 
2025: 
 
1. Subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by inserting the 
following new headings 9903.91.12 through 9903.91.16 in numerical 
sequence, with the material in the new headings and subheadings inserted in 
the columns of the HTSUS labeled “Heading/Subheading”, “Article 
Description”, “Rates of Duty 1-General”, “Rates of Duty 1-Special” and 
“Rates of Duty 2”, respectively: 
 
Heading/ 
Subheading Article Description 
Rates of Duty 
1 2 
General Special 
“9903.91.12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9903.91.13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective with respect to entries, on or after 
November 9, 2025, of intermodal chassis, 
subassemblies thereof, and parts thereof 
(provided for in statistical reporting number 
8716.39.0090, or in subheadings 8716.90.30 or 
8716.90.50), articles the product of China, as 
provided for in subdivision (k)(i) of U.S. note 
31 to this subchapter, except as provided in 
heading 9903.91.13 . . . . . . . . . .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective with respect to entries, on or after 
November 9, 2025, of articles the product of 
China, as provided for in subdivision (k)(ii) of 
U.S. note 31 to this subchapter (provided for in 
statistical reporting number 8716.39.0090, or 
subheadings 8716.90.30 or 8716.90.50), except 
as provided in heading 9903.91.12 . . . . . . . . . . .  
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
subheadings 
8716.39.00, 
8716.90.30 
or 
8716.90.50  
+ 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
 
 
 
 
 
  

[Page 25]
 
25 
9903.91.14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9903.91.15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9903.91.16 
Effective with respect to entries, on or after 
November 9, 2025, of ship-to-shore gantry 
cranes, configured as a high- or low-profile 
steel superstructure and designed to unload 
intermodal containers from vessels with 
coupling devices for containers, including 
spreaders or twist-locks (provided for in 
subheading 8426.19.00), as provided for in 
subdivision (l) of U.S. note 31 to this 
subchapter, except as provided in headings 
9903.91.09, 9903.91.15 or 9903.91.16 . . . . . . . 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding heading 9903.91.14, effective 
with respect to entries, on or after November 9, 
2025, of ship-to-shore gantry cranes, configured 
as a high- or low-profile steel superstructure 
and designed to unload intermodal containers 
from vessels with coupling devices for 
containers, including spreaders or twist-locks 
(provided for in subheading 8426.19.00), 
attested by the importer that the ship-to-shore 
gantry cranes: (1) are not products of China; (2) 
are not manufactured, assembled, or made using 
components, assemblies or subassemblies that 
are products of China, as specified in 
subdivision (l)(ii) of note 31 to this subchapter; 
and (3) are not manufactured by a company or 
other entity that is owned or controlled by a 
Chinese person or legal entity, as specified by 
subdivision (l)(v) of note 31 to this subchapter . 
. . .  
 
 
 
Notwithstanding heading 9903.91.14, effective 
with respect to entries, on or after November 9, 
2025, of ship-to-shore gantry cranes, configured 
as a high- or low-profile steel superstructure 
and designed to unload intermodal containers 
from vessels with coupling devices for 
containers, including spreaders or twist-locks 
(provided for in subheading 8426.19.00), that: 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
+ 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

[Page 26]
 
26 
(1) are products of China; (2) that are 
manufactured, assembled or made using 
components, assemblies or subassemblies that 
are products of China; or (3) that are 
manufactured  by a company or other entity that 
is owned or controlled by a Chinese person or 
legal entity, as specified by subdivision (l) of 
U.S. note 31 to this subchapter, that are attested 
by the importer as fulfilling in whole or in part 
an executed contract for sale dated prior to 
April 17, 2025 for goods that are entered for 
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for 
consumption, in the United States prior to April 
18, 2027 . . . . . . . . . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The duty 
provided in 
the 
applicable 
subheading”
. 
 
 
 
2. Subdivision (a) of U.S. note 31 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS 
is modified by deleting “and 9903.91.11” wherever it appears and inserting “, 
9903.91.11, 9903.91.12 and 9903.91.14” in lieu thereof. 
3. U.S. note 31 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by 
inserting the following new subdivision (k) in alphabetical order: 
 
“(k)(i) Heading 9903.91.12 applies to intermodal chassis, subassemblies thereof, 
and parts thereof, of China, provided for in statistical reporting number 
8716.39.0090 or in subheadings 8716.90.30 or 8716.90.50.  For purposes of 
heading 9903.91.12, intermodal chassis, subassemblies thereof, and parts thereof 
are described as follows: 
 
“The articles consist of chassis and subassemblies thereof, whether finished or 
unfinished, whether assembled or unassembled, whether coated or uncoated, 
regardless of the number of axles, for carriage of containers, or other payloads 
(including self-supporting payloads) for road, marine and/or rail transport. 
Chassis are typically, but are not limited to, rectangular framed trailers with a 
suspension and axle system, wheels and tires, brakes, a lighting and electrical 
system, a coupling for towing behind a truck tractor, and a locking system or 
systems to secure the shipping container or containers to the chassis using twist-
locks, slide pins or similar attachment devices to engage the corner fittings on the 
container or other payload.  
 
“The articles include, but are not limited to, the following subassemblies:  
 
a. Chassis frames, or sections of chassis frames, including kingpin 
assemblies, bolsters consisting of transverse beams with locking or 

[Page 27]
 
27 
support mechanisms, goosenecks, drop assemblies, extension mechanisms 
and/ or rear impact guards;  
b. Running gear assemblies or axle assemblies for connection to the 
chassis frame, whether fixed in nature or capable of sliding fore and aft or 
lifting up and lowering down, which may or may not include 
suspension(s) (mechanical or pneumatic), wheel end components, slack 
adjusters, axles, brake chambers, locking pins, and tires and wheels;  
c. Landing gear assemblies, for connection to the chassis frame, capable of 
supporting the chassis when it is not engaged to a tractor; and  
d. Assemblies that connect to the chassis frame or a section of the chassis 
frame, such as, but not limited to, pintle hooks or B-trains (which include 
a fifth wheel), which are capable of connecting a chassis to a converter 
dolly or another chassis. Importation of any of these subassemblies, 
whether assembled or unassembled, constitutes an unfinished chassis for 
purposes of this note. 
 
“The articles also include chassis, whether finished or unfinished, entered with or 
for further assembly with components such as, but not limited to: Hub and drum 
assemblies, brake assemblies (either drum or disc), axles, brake chambers, 
suspensions and suspension components, wheel end components, landing gear 
legs, spoke or disc wheels, tires, brake control systems, electrical harnesses and 
lighting systems.” 
 
“(ii) Heading 9903.91.13 applies to articles of China provided for in statistical 
reporting number 8716.39.0090, or subheadings 8716.90.30 or 8716.90.50, other 
than intermodal chassis, subassemblies thereof, and parts thereof, of China, 
provided for in statistical reporting number 8716.39.0090 or in subheadings 
8716.90.30 or 8716.90.50, which are subject to the additional duties provided for 
in heading 9903.91.12.” 
 
4. U.S. note 31 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is modified by 
inserting the following new subdivision (l) in alphabetical order: 
 
“(l)(i) Heading 9903.91.14 applies to ship-to-shore gantry cranes, configured as a 
high- or low-profile steel superstructure and designed to unload intermodal 
containers from vessels with coupling devices for containers, including spreaders 
or twist-locks, provided for in subheading 8426.19.00, that are: (1) products of 
China; (2) products of countries other than China that contain components, 
assemblies or subassemblies, of China, as specified in subdivision (l)(ii) of this 
note; or (3) products that are manufactured by a company or other entity that is 
owned or controlled by a Chinese person or legal entity. 
 
“Heading 9903.91.14 shall not apply to entries under headings 9903.91.09 (as 
long as it is operative), 9903.91.15 or 9903.91.16. Notwithstanding U.S. note 1 to 
this subchapter, products of China that are subject to the additional duties imposed 

[Page 28]
 
28 
by heading 9903.91.14 shall also be subject to the additional duties imposed by 
heading 9903.92.10.” 
 
“(ii) A ship-to-shore gantry crane of a country other than China that contains one 
or more of the following components, assemblies or subassemblies that are 
products of China shall be considered to be a ship-to-shore gantry crane of China 
for purposes of heading 9903.91.14: 
 
a.  the boom;  
b.  the trolley; 
c.  the spreader; 
d.  the cabin; 
e.  the legs; 
f.  the cable reel; 
g.  the power supply; 
h.  the bogie set and wheels; and  
i.  any information technology equipment used to operate or control the 
crane.” 
 
“(iii) A ship-to-shore gantry crane that is manufactured by a company or other 
entity that is owned or controlled by a Chinese person or legal entity shall be 
considered to be a ship-to-shore gantry crane of China for purposes of heading 
9903.91.14.” 
 
“(iv) For purposes of heading 9903.91.15, by claiming this heading, the importer 
attests that the ship-to-shore gantry cranes: (1) are not products of China; (2) are 
not manufactured, assembled, or made using components, assemblies or 
subassemblies that are products of China, as defined in subdivision (l)(ii) of this 
note; and (3) are not manufactured by a company or other entity that is owned or 
controlled by a Chinese person or legal entity, as defined in subdivision (l)(v) of 
this note. 
 
“(v) For purposes of headings 9903.91.14 and 9903.91.15: 
 
a. A “company or other entity that is owned or controlled by a Chinese person or 
legal entity” means: 
 
“1. an entity or instrument of the People’s Republic of China, (including The 
Government of the People’s Republic of China); 
2. A natural person who is a citizen of the People’s Republic of China; 
3. A partnership, association, corporation, organization, or other combination of 
persons organized under the laws of or having its principal place of business in 
the People’s Republic of China; 
4. An entity organized under the laws of the United States or any other 
jurisdiction that is subject to the ownership, control, or direction of another entity 
that qualifies under subdivisions (v)(a)(1)-(3).  

[Page 29]
 
29 
5. An entity is “subject to the ownership, control, or direction of” another entity 
if:  
(A) 25 percent or more of the entity’s board seats, voting rights, or equity 
interest are cumulatively held by that other entity, whether directly or 
indirectly via one or more intermediate entities; or 
(B) the entity has entered into a licensing arrangement or other contract 
with another entity (a contractor) that entitles that other entity to exercise 
effective control over the manufacturing or assembly (collectively, 
“production”) of a ship-to-shore gantry crane, its components, assemblies, 
subassemblies, or other materials that would be attributed to the entity.” 
 
“b. “The Government of the People’s Republic of China” means:  
 
“1. A national or subnational government of the People’s Republic of China; 
2. An agency or instrumentality of a national or subnational government of the 
People’s Republic of China; 
3. A dominant or ruling political party (e.g., Chinese Communist Party (CCP)) of 
the People’s Republic of China; or  
4. A current or former senior foreign political figure of the People’s Republic of 
China.” 
 
“c. “Senior foreign political figure” means:  
 
1. a senior official, either in the executive, legislative, administrative, military, or 
judicial branches of the People’s Republic of China (whether elected or not);  
2. a senior official of a dominant or ruling foreign political party (e.g., CCP); or  
3. an immediate family member (spouse, parent, sibling, child, or a spouse's 
parent and sibling) of any individual described in (v)(c)(1) or (v)(c)(2).  
 
“In order to be considered “senior,” an official should be or have been in a 
position of substantial authority over policy, operations, or the use of government-
owned resources.” 
 
“d. For purposes of determining whether an entity indirectly holds board seats, 
voting rights, or equity interest in a tiered ownership structure:  
 
“1. If a “parent” entity that qualifies under subdivisions (v)(a)(1)-(3) directly 
holds 50 percent or more of a “subsidiary” entity's board seats, voting rights, or 
equity interest, then the parent and subsidiary are treated as equivalent in the 
evaluation of control, as if the subsidiary were an extension of the parent. As 
such, any holdings of the subsidiary are fully attributed to the parent. 
2. If a “parent” entity that qualifies under subdivisions (v)(a)(1)-(3) directly holds 
less than 50 percent of a “subsidiary” entity's board seats, voting rights, or equity 
interest, then indirect ownership is attributed proportionately.” 
 

[Page 30]
 
30 
“e. For purposes of determining whether an entity has effective control, an entity 
that qualifies under subdivisions (v)(a)(1)-(3) that has a contractual relationship to 
determine the quantity or timing of production; to determine which entities may 
purchase or use the output of production; to restrict access to the site of 
production to the contractor's own personnel; or the exclusive right to maintain, 
repair, or operate equipment that is critical to production, is deemed to have 
effective control over an entity.” 
 
***** 
 
Proposed Modifications to Annex I 
 
* * * 
 
Targeted Coverage 
 
The following targeted coverage provision applicable to Annex I is provid ed: 
 
As of October 14, 2025, an LPG carrier (ICST Code 131) or Other Liquified Gas Carrier 
(ICST 130) that is ordered before April 17, 2025, and is in service and entered into a 
long-term time charter agreement (that is, 20 years or more) prior to December 31, 
2027, will be considered owned and operated by the charterer in the time charter 
contract. 
 
Proposed Modifications to Annex II 
 
Targeted Coverage 
 
* * * 
 
The fees imposed in this Annex do not apply to the following Chinese-built vessels: 
 
* * * 
 
(vii) vessels principally identified as “Lakers Vessels” on CBP Form 1300, or its 
electronic equivalent. 
 
(vii) Vessels calling at a U.S. Great Lakes port: targeted coverage provisions (ii), (iii), 
and (iv) do not apply unless the vessel is loading cargo destined for a port outside of the 
United States, Canada, or Mexico, or offloading cargo that was loaded at a port outside of 
the United States, Canada, or Mexico.  
 
Proposed Modifications to Annex III 
 
* * * 
 

[Page 31]
 
31 
Targeted Coverage  
 
The service fees imposed in this Annex do not apply to the following vessels subject to 
this Annex: 
 
* * * 
 
(iii) U.S.-flag vessels of up to 10,000 DWT.  The targeted coverage provision will apply 
as of October 14, 2025, and expire, unless renewed, on April 18, 2029. 
 
Annex V.B: Proposed Tariffs on Certain Additional Maritime Cargo Handling 
Equipment of China 
 
The Trade Representative proposes to assess additional duties on the following products 
of China at the proposed levels indicated below: 
 
Item HTSUS Proposed Rate 
Rubber Tire Gantry Cranes 
These gantry cranes are tire-
mounted cranes for high-volume 
container handling, and are often 
suitable for both port and intermodal 
operations. 
HTSUS 8426.19.00 Up to 150% 
Rail Mounted Gantry Cranes 
These gantry cranes are rail-
mounted cranes used for high-
volume container handling, and are 
suitable for both port and intermodal 
operations.  These cranes move 
along rails fixed to the ground. 
HTSUS 8426.19.00 Up to 150% 
Automatic Stacking Crane (ASC)  
These cranes are rail-mounted 
cranes for yard stacking and in-stack 
transportation of containers. ASCs 
deposit and lift containers from 
dedicated interchange areas located 
at both ends of the stack.  These 
cranes move along rails fixed to the 
ground. 
HTSUS 8426.19.00 Up to 150% 
Reachstackers (such as a 
contstacker, railstacker and 
transtacker)  
These are mobile self-propelled 
machines used to load and unload 
shipping containers in dockyards, 
HTSUS 8426.41.00 
HTSUS 8426.49.00 
Up to 150% 

[Page 32]
 
32 
and similar transportation terminals, 
as well as to stack the shipping 
containers one on top of the other. 
Straddle carriers Straddle carriers, 
consist of a chassis of the “straddle” 
type, generally with vertical 
telescopic members for adjusting the 
height. This chassis is normally 
mounted on four or more wheels 
which usually serve both as driving 
and steering wheels.  Often used in 
marine environments to lift 
containers. 
HTSUS 8426.12.00 Up to 150% 
Terminal Tractors and Parts thereof 
Terminal tractors typically fall under 
Heading 8709 unless they come 
equipped with lifting/handling 
equipment installed, including a fifth 
wheel, in which case the terminal 
tractor falls under 8701.95.50. 
HTSUS 8709.11.00 
HTSUS 8709.19.00 
HTSUS 8709.90.00 
HTSUS 8701.95.50 
Up to 150% 
Top Handlers/Top Loaders  
Top handlers, also known as top 
loaders, are heavy-duty vehicles 
used in ports and terminals to move 
and stack loaded shipping 
containers. They lift containers from 
the top, making them ideal for 
loading and unloading trucks, trains, 
and stacking containers within 
terminals. Top handlers can lift 
containers weighing up to 100,000 
pounds and stack them three or five 
high.  
HTSUS 8427.20.80 
HTSUS 8429.51.10 
HTSUS 8429.51.50 
Up to 150% 
Components of these cranes, 
stackers, carriers, tractors, handlers, 
and loaders (not more specifically 
described in another heading). 
HTSUS 8431.20.00 
HTSUS 8431.41.00 
HTSUS 8431.49.10 
 
Up to 150% 
 
USTR proposes to assess these additional duties in addition to duties assessed under other 
authorities, including related to national security, national emergency, Column 1 of the 
HTSUS, or anti-dumping or countervailing duties (AD/CVD).  