On March 5, a prospective domestic producer of lithium hexafluorophosphate (LiPF6) filed petitions with the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to initiate antidumping (AD) and countervailing (CVD) duty investigations on imports of the chemical compound from China.
The petitioner alleges that Chinese LiPF6 is being or is likely to be imported into the U.S. at unfair prices while also taking advantage of numerous countervailable government subsidies. With Chinese producers accounting for nearly 95% of global production in 2025, the petitioner argues that these dumping and subsidy schemes have distorted the U.S. market and prevented the establishment of U.S. industry.
LiPF6 is a chemical compound that serves as the primary electrolyte salt in lithium-ion batteries. When dissolved into electrolyte solution, the compound allows lithium ions to move between the anode and cathode during charging and discharging and helps form protective layers to support battery stability. The proposed scope of the investigations specifically covers merchandise meeting the following description:
LiPF6, an inorganic lithium compound with Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) registry number 21324-40-3 and the chemical formula LiPF6.
Subject merchandise includes LiPF6 in any form, including LiPF6 in a solid form such as a powder or crystal; LiPF6 in a diluted liquid form where the LiPF6 has been dissolved in one or more organic solvents; and LiPF6 dissolved in multicomponent electrolyte formulations that may also contain various salts, solvents, and/or additives, provided that, for each of these forms, the combined LiPF6 component comprises more than 5 percent (5 wt%) of the total weight of the mixture. For any such formulations, only the LiPF6 component of the mixture is covered by the scope of the investigation.
The country of origin of any LiPF6 in a solvent or electrolyte formulation is determined by the country in which the underlying LiPF6 is produced. LiPF6 is classified under Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading 2826.90.9010. Subject merchandise, including the abovementioned formulations, may also be classified under HTSUS subheadings 2826.90.9090, 3824.91.0000, and 3824.99.9397. The HTSUS subheadings and CAS registry number are provided for convenience and customs purposes only. The written description of the scope of the investigation is dispositive.
The petitioner calculated average dumping margins of 145.27% – 200.50%, which could serve as the AD duty rate if Commerce and the ITC affirmatively find that imports “are causing, and are threatening to cause material injury to the domestic industry.” The petitions did not include a specific CVD rate.
Commerce’s International Trade Administration will have 20 days from the date on which the petitioners submitted their request to decide whether to launch an investigation. The ITC will also issue its preliminary determinations within 45 days.If Commerce issues affirmative preliminary determinations, importers must begin posting AD/CVD cash deposits on all entries of in-scope merchandise imported on or after the date on which Commerce publishes its decision in the Federal Register. Certain circumstances can also trigger AD/CVD liability for entries made up to three months earlier. Commerce may revise these preliminary rates when it issues the final determinations.
Interested parties wishing to file comments of industry support must do so no later than March 18, 2026, with rebuttal comments then due on March 20, 2026. If your company has concerns about the scope of the case, managing imports during the course of the investigations, or would like to submit a comment, please reach out to one of our attorneys at Barnes, Richardson & Colburn.
We use cookies, just to track visits to our website, we store no personal details.