[Page 1]
Billing Code: 3510-33  
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 
Bureau of Industry and Security 
15 CFR 700
[Docket No. 260804-0143]
0694-AK51
DPAS Directive Allocation Order and Additional Requirements for Recoverable Critical 
Minerals and Materials
AGENCY: Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
ACTION: Temporary final rule; Request for comments.
SUMMARY: The Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) is publishing this temporary final 
rule to restrict the exportation of black mass and tungsten waste and scrap without a license.  
Specifically, as of [INSERT DATE 21 DAYS AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE 
FEDERAL REGISTER], U.S. persons engaged in the sale of black mass and tungsten waste and 
scrap must allocate 100 percent of monthly sales to U.S. persons, unless an adjustment or 
exception is obtained in advance from BIS. This action is taken pursuant to section 101 of the 
Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (“DPA” or the “Act”), the Defense Priorities and 
Allocations System (15 CFR Part 700) and Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 101 
of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as Amended, on Recoverable Critical Minerals and 
Materials, dated July 30, 2026 (“DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs”), in which the 
President authorized the Department of Commerce (“Commerce”) to address the scarcity of 
recoverable critical minerals and materials (“CMMs”). BIS invites the public to submit 
comments on whether any additional sales requirements are necessary or appropriate to promote 
the national defense.
DATES: Directive Allocation Order Effective date: [INSERT DATE 21 DAYS AFTER DATE 
OF PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER] through [INSERT DATE 386 DAYS 
This document is scheduled to be published in the
Federal Register on 2026-08-06 and available online at
https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2026-16078, and on
https://govinfo.gov

[Page 2]
AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER]. 
Request for Adjustment and Exceptions date: Requests may be submitted on a rolling basis 
beginning [INSERT DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER] through 
[INSERT DATE 386 DAYS AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL 
REGISTER].
Comments: Comments must be received by [INSERT DATE 90 DAYS AFTER DATE OF 
PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].
ADDRESSES:  Requests for an adjustment or exception may be submitted to the Department of 
Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, Office of Strategic Industries and Economic 
Security via DPASAllocations@bis.doc.gov. 
Comments regarding this temporary final rule may be submitted to the Federal rulemaking portal 
at: https://www.regulations.gov. The regulations.gov ID for this notice is BIS-2026-0364. Please 
refer to RIN 0694-AK51 in all comments. All filers using the portal should use the name of the 
person or entity submitting the comments as the name of their files, in accordance with the 
instructions below. Anyone submitting business confidential information should clearly identify 
the business confidential portion at the time of submission, file a statement justifying 
nondisclosure and referring to the specific legal authority claimed, and provide a non-
confidential version of the submission.
For comments submitted electronically containing business confidential information, the file 
name of the business confidential version should begin with the characters “BC.” Any page 
containing business confidential information must be clearly marked “BUSINESS 
CONFIDENTIAL” on the top of that page. The corresponding non-confidential version of those 
comments must be clearly marked “PUBLIC.” The file name of the non-confidential version 
should begin with the character “P.” Any submissions with file names that do not begin with 
either a “BC” or a “P” will be assumed to be public and will be made publicly available 
at: https://www.regulations.gov. Commenters submitting business confidential information are 

[Page 3]
encouraged to scan a hard copy of the non-confidential version to create an image of the file, 
rather than submitting a digital copy with redactions applied, to avoid inadvertent redaction 
errors which could enable the public to read business confidential information. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Emily Noel, Office of Strategic Industries 
and Economic Security, Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce, Telephone: 
202-482-3634; email: DPASAllocations@bis.doc.gov. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 
The preamble to this temporary final rule consists of four sections: 
I. Legal Authorities
II. Provisions of the Temporary Final Rule
III. Request for Comment
IV. Rulemaking Requirements
I. Legal Authorities
BIS administers the DPAS regulation which implements the priorities and allocations 
authority under Title I of the DPA (50 U.S.C. § 4501, et. seq.), with respect to all materials, 
services, and facilities, including construction materials, not delegated to other Secretaries under 
Executive Order (“E.O.”) 13603. These materials, services, and facilities are referred to as 
“industrial resources.” 
On July 30, 2026, the President issued DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs. 
Under DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs, the President found that certain recoverable 
CMMs are scarce and critical materials essential to the national defense. The President stated 
that the inadequate supply of CMMs poses an increasing risk to our national defense and 
security, and it is imperative that the United States take immediate action to secure the supply of 
recoverable CMMs. Accordingly, pursuant to section 101 of the DPA, the President found that 
recoverable CMMs meet the criteria specified in section 101(b) of the DPA (50 U.S.C. 4511(b)). 
With these findings, the President authorized the Secretary of Commerce (“Secretary”) to use the 

[Page 4]
Secretary’s delegated authority under E.O. 13603 of March 12, 2012 (National Defense 
Resources Preparedness) to implement this determination by taking all appropriate action under 
section 101 of the DPA. 
II. Provisions of the Temporary Final Rule
BIS has determined that sales by U.S. persons of certain scarce materials identified in 
DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs shall be allocated to U.S. persons through an 
Allocation Order, which are described in pursuant to Subpart F of Part 700 (DPAS). Consistent 
with section 709(b)(2) of the DPA (50 USC 4559(b)(2)), this Allocation Order and associated 
necessary conforming revisions to the DPAS regulations are published as a temporary final rule 
because BIS has determined that urgent and compelling circumstances make compliance with 
prior notice and opportunity for public comment impracticable. This temporary rule is necessary 
to immediately secure the supply of certain recoverable CMMs to ensure an adequate supply of 
these materials deemed essential to the national defense, as required by the President under DPA 
Determination on Recoverable CMMs.
Specifically, BIS is publishing this temporary final rule to implement a Directive 
Allocation Order, as described in § 700.33 (Types of allocation orders) in the DPAS. The 
industrial resources specified in the Directive Allocation Order may not be exported from the 
United States without explicit authorization by BIS. This Directive Allocation Order and the 
associated regulatory revisions in this temporary final rule expire one year from its effective 
date, unless adjusted or extended by BIS prior to the expiration date in a Federal Register 
publication. 
A. Regulatory Revisions 
BIS is revising § 700.34 of the DPAS to add new paragraph (d), to include a provision to 
issue allocation orders through a temporary final rule in the Federal Register. In addition, BIS is 
adding new supplement no. 1 to part 700 to issue a Directive Allocation Order pursuant to new 
paragraph § 700.34(d). The new supplement includes:

[Page 5]
•Information regarding scope and definition of terms that apply solely to the Directive 
Allocation Order issued by publication of this temporary final rule (and not to other 
provisions within the DPAS); 
•Adjustment and exceptions requirements for this Directive Allocation Order issued by a 
temporary final rule; 
•Additional compliance guidance; and 
•A table that identifies the scarce and critical materials deemed essential to national 
defense under DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs, identified by 10-digit 
Schedule B codes and accompanying description. The table includes the monthly 
domestic sales requirement percentage, as well as effective date and expiration date of 
this Directive Allocation Order.
The provisions in the supplement apply solely to the Directive Allocation Order and do not apply 
to other official actions taken pursuant to the DPAS. Additionally, BIS is making conforming 
changes to §§ 700.8 (Definitions) and 700.80 (Adjustments or exceptions) to include reference to 
supplement no. 1 to part 700 and the specific provisions that are exclusively required for 
allocation orders issued through a temporary final rule in the Federal Register in new supplement 
no. 1 to part 700. 
B. Directive Allocation Order Requirements for Black Mass and Tungsten Waste and Scrap
U.S. persons engaged in the sale of materials described and identified by Schedule B 
codes listed in Table 1 of this supplement are required to comply with this order, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR part 
700).
As of [INSERT 21 DAYS AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL 
REGISTER], U.S. persons engaged in the sale of ‘black mass’ and tungsten waste and scrap, 
must allocate 100 percent of monthly sales to U.S. persons, as specified in new supplement no. 1 
to part 700 of the DPAS. For purposes of this Directive Allocation Order, “black mass” means 

[Page 6]
any shredded lithium-ion battery scrap that contains cathode material (which may include 
lithium, cobalt, nickel and manganese), anode material (graphite, silicon) or other residual 
battery cell materials. 
Accordingly, starting [INSERT 21 DAYS AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE 
FEDERAL REGISTER], U.S. persons engaged in the sale of black mass (Schedule B codes 
8549.13.00.00, 8549.14.00.00, and 8549.19.00.00) and tungsten waste and scrap (Schedule B 
code 8101.97.00.00) must allocate 100 percent of monthly sales to U.S. persons (referred to as a 
“domestic sales requirement”), unless an exception or adjustment is granted by BIS, as described 
in Section II.C of this temporary final rule. The domestic sales requirement for electrical and 
electronic waste and scrap: waste and scrap of primary cells, primary batteries and electric 
accumulators; spent primary cells, spent primary batteries and spent electric accumulators: sorted 
by chemical type and not containing lead, cadmium or mercury (Schedule B code 
8549.13.00.00); electrical and electronic waste and scrap: waste and scrap of primary cells, 
primary batteries and electric accumulators; spent primary cells, spent primary batteries and 
spent electric accumulators: unsorted and not containing lead, cadmium or mercury (Schedule B 
code 8549.14.00.00); and electrical and electronic waste and scrap: waste and scrap of primary 
cells, primary batteries and electric accumulators; spent primary cells, spent primary batteries 
and spent electric accumulators: other (Schedule B code 8549.19.00.00) are limited to materials 
that meet the definition of “black mass”, as defined in supplement no. 1 to part 700. Materials 
under these Schedule B codes that do not meet this definition of “black mass” are not subject to 
this Directive Allocation Order. 
Therefore, starting [INSERT 21 DAYS AFTER DATE OF PUBLICATION IN THE 
FEDERAL REGISTER], “black mass” (Schedule B codes 8549.13.00.00, 8549.14.00.00, and 
8549.19.00.00) and tungsten waste and scrap (Schedule B code 8101.97.00.00) must remain 
physically located within the United States, unless otherwise authorized by BIS. U.S. persons 
must continue to fill DPAS rated orders for covered black mass and tungsten waste and scrap 

[Page 7]
from U.S. persons in accordance with the DPAS regulations. In accordance with new 
Supplement no. 1 to part 700(c), implemented through this temporary final rule, BIS may grant 
exceptions or adjustments on a case-by-case basis to allow sales to non-U.S. persons, 
notwithstanding the domestic sales requirement.
C. Authorizations for Adjustments and Exceptions
While Subpart K of the DPAS describes the Adjustments, Exceptions and Appeals 
process, U.S. persons who are subject to the domestic sales requirement for “black mass” and 
tungsten waste and scrap must submit a request for an adjustment or exception, following the 
process described in new supplement no. 1 to part 700(c). BIS may authorize both company-
specific and generally applicable adjustments or exceptions from the sale requirement at its 
discretion, consistent with the determination that the restrictions covered by this rule are 
necessary or appropriate to promote the national defense. In addition, BIS may authorize interim 
relief – i.e., a DPAS temporary license – while a request is pending. A DPAS temporary license 
or other type of approval which provides authorization from BIS for an adjustment or exception 
to this Directive Allocation Order is neither equivalent to nor replaces licenses or other 
authorizations to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) commodities, technology, or software 
pursuant to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR Parts 730-774). Persons granted a 
DPAS license or DPAS temporary license under the Directive Allocation Order must otherwise 
adhere to U.S. export control regulations. 
BIS will consider granting adjustments, exceptions, or interim relief for this Directive 
Allocation Order for the following scenarios, among others: 
•The domestic sales requirement results in an undue or exceptional hardship on that 
person not suffered generally by others in similar situations and circumstances.
•The consequence of complying with the domestic sales requirement is contrary to the 
intent of the DPA or this part – for example, because it would reduce the domestic 
supply of CMMs.

[Page 8]
•A U.S. person plans to sell black mass and tungsten waste and scrap to a person 
located outside the United States for processing or refining, and then the 
processed/refined material will be returned to the United States.  
•Compliance with the domestic sales requirement will result in irreparable harm to a 
U.S. person who is subject to the order.
•Additional time is needed to comply with the domestic sales requirements.
Requests for adjustments and exceptions must be made in writing and provided to BIS via 
DPASAllocations@bis.doc.gov. Each request for adjustment or exception must contain a 
complete statement of all the facts and circumstances related to the domestic sales requirement 
from which relief is sought, and a full and precise statement of the reasons why relief should be 
provided; and relevant supporting documents or data to support the request.
The submission of a request for adjustment or exception shall not relieve any person from 
the obligation of complying with the domestic sales requirement while the request is being 
considered, unless such interim relief is granted in writing. BIS intends to respond to requests for 
adjustment of or exceptions to compliance with the domestic sales requirement within 14 days of 
the date of receipt. An appeal for a decision under this section may be made in accordance with 
15 CFR 700.81. For more information regarding adjustments and exception requests, please refer 
to 15 CFR 700.80.
D. Compliance and Procedures
Compliance provisions in Subpart J of the DPAS continue to apply. U.S. persons are 
required to comply with allocation orders and the terms of any adjustment or exception 
authorizations granted, in accordance with 15 CFR 700.35. Further, in accordance with 15 CFR 
700.90, section 707 of the DPA (50 U.S.C. § 4557), and to the fullest extent consistent with 
applicable law, a person shall not be held liable for damages or penalties for any act or failure to 
act resulting directly or indirectly from compliance with the DPAS regulation, or this Directive 
Allocation Order, notwithstanding that such provision or action shall subsequently be declared 

[Page 9]
invalid by judicial or other competent authority.
If a U.S. person is unable to comply fully with the required action(s) specified in an 
allocation order, the U.S. person must notify BIS immediately in writing, explain the extent to 
which compliance is possible, and give the reasons why full compliance is not possible. Written 
notification must be provided to BIS via DPASAllocations@bis.doc.gov. If notification is given 
verbally to BIS via 202-482-3634, written or electronic confirmation must be provided to BIS 
within one working day via DPASAllocations@bis.doc.gov. Such notification does not release 
the U.S. person from complying with the order to the fullest extent possible, until the U.S. person 
is notified by BIS that the order has been changed or cancelled. 
BIS will implement this temporary final rule with the cooperation and assistance of other 
U.S. Government agencies, including U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). Any covered 
materials intended for export may be detained by CBP while BIS conducts its review of the 
shipment. BIS will review the shipment and provide notification as soon as possible regarding 
the disposition of the covered materials under this Directive Allocation Order, provided that any 
goods that have been detained by CBP and are subsequently made subject to a DPAS rated order 
will be consigned to BIS pending further distribution or agency direction. BIS may provide 
additional guidance regarding the application of any exemptions to this temporary final rule, as 
appropriate.
BIS may conduct investigations and issue requests for information as may be necessary 
for the enforcement of the Act, the DPAS regulations, and this Directive Allocation Order. See 
15 CFR 700.71; see also section 705 of the Act, 50 U.S.C. 4555. BIS may also seek an 
injunction or other order in accordance with 15 CFR 700.74(b). See also section 706 of the Act, 
50 U.S.C. 4556. In addition to an injunction, failure to comply fully with this temporary final 
rule is punishable in accordance with 15 CFR 700.74(a). See also sections 103 and 705 of the 
Act, 50 U.S.C. 4513 and 4555. 
At any point in time, and to the extent consistent with United States policy, BIS may 

[Page 10]
determine that additional materials identified in DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs be 
subject to an allocation order. BIS may add additional materials to this Directive Allocation 
Order and will provide notification of this decision through publication in the Federal Register. 
III. Request for Comments
While this temporary final rule is effective on publication, BIS requests comments on whether 
any additional sales requirements are necessary or appropriate to promote the national defense. 
In addition, BIS also welcomes comments on the framework of the temporary regulatory 
provisions added to the DPAS.
IV. Rulemaking Requirements
1. Executive Orders 13563 and 12866 direct agencies to assess all costs and benefits of available 
regulatory alternatives and, if regulation is necessary, to select regulatory approaches that 
maximize net benefits (including potential economic, environmental, public health and safety 
effects, distributive impacts, and equity). Executive Order 13563 emphasizes the importance of 
quantifying both costs and benefits, of reducing costs, of harmonizing rules, and of promoting 
flexibility. This temporary final rule has been determined to be a “significant regulatory action,” 
although not economically significant, under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866. This 
temporary final rule is exempt from Executive Order 14192 because it is being issued with 
respect to a national security function of the United States.
2. This rule does not contain policies with Federalism implications as that term is defined in 
Executive Order 13132.
3. This rule is exempt from the Administrative Procedures Act (APA) (See 5 U.S.C. 553) and is 
published as a temporary rule with immediate effective date. Agency rulemaking is generally 
governed by the agency rulemaking provisions of the APA and such provisions generally require 
that, unless the rule falls within one of a number of enumerated exceptions, or unless another 
statute exempts the rulemaking from the requirements of the APA, BIS must publish a notice of 
proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register that provides interested persons an opportunity to 

[Page 11]
submit written data, views, or arguments, prior to finalization of regulatory requirements. 
Pursuant to section 709(a) of the Act, 50 U.S.C. 4559(a), this rule is exempt from the 
rulemaking provisions of the APA, sections 5 U.S.C. 551-559. While section 709(b)(1) of the 
Act, 50 U.S.C. 4559(b)(1) requires agencies to promulgate regulations under that section by 
providing notice and opportunity for public comment “consistent with section 553(b)”, section 
709(b)(2) directs agencies to waive the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553(b) if (A) the officer 
authorized to issue the regulation finds that urgent and compelling circumstances make 
compliance with such requirements impracticable; (B) the regulation is issued on a temporary 
basis; and (C) the publication of such temporary regulation is accompanied by the finding made 
under subparagraph (A) (and a brief statement of the reasons for such finding) and an 
opportunity for public comment is provided for not less than 30 days before any regulation 
becomes final. Based on the findings in DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs, which 
already have been summarized in this document, the Under Secretary for Industry and Security 
has determined “that urgent and compelling circumstances make compliance” with the notice 
and comment requirements of section 709(b)(1) of the Act, 50 U.S.C. 4559(b)(1), 
“impracticable.” An opportunity for public comment is being provided now for a period of 90 
days, which shall ensure that a minimum 30-day public comment period is provided before any 
provisions of this temporary final rule “become final,” i.e. without an expiration date, pursuant to 
section 709(b)(2)(C) of the Act, 50 U.S.C. 4559(b)(2)(C).
America’s inadequate supply of CMMs poses an increasing risk to our national defense 
and security. The United States relies heavily on imports of certain CMMs commodities from 
foreign sources, and this reliance threatens serious, sustained supply chain disruptions. It is 
imperative that the United States take immediate action to secure the supply of recoverable 
CMMs by allocating a percentage of sales of specific recoverable CMMs to U.S. persons.
The measures described in this rule are being issued on a temporary basis. This 
temporary rule will cease to be in effect on [INSERT DATE 386 DAYS AFTER DATE OF 

[Page 12]
PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].
4. Because a notice of proposed rulemaking and an opportunity for public comment are not 
required to be given for this rule under the APA (5 U.S.C. 553) or by any other law, the 
analytical requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) are not 
applicable. Accordingly, no regulatory flexibility analysis is required, and none has been 
prepared.
5. The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) provides that an agency 
generally cannot conduct or sponsor a collection of information, and no person is required to 
respond to nor be subject to a penalty for failure to comply with a collection of information, 
unless that collection has obtained Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approval and 
displays a currently valid OMB Control Number.  
On July 30, 2026, the President issued a Presidential Determination titled “Presidential 
Determination Pursuant to Section 101 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as Amended, on 
Recoverable Critical Minerals and Materials” (“DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs”). 
Under DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs, the President found that recoverable critical 
minerals and materials (CMMs) are scarce and critical materials essential to the national defense, 
meeting the criteria specified in section 101(b) of the DPA (50 U.S.C. 4501, et seq.). Per DPA 
Determination on Recoverable CMMs, the President found that America’s inadequate supply of 
CMMs poses an increasing risk to our national defense and security and directed the Secretary 
to take immediate action to secure the supply of recoverable CMMs. 
BIS cannot reasonably comply with the normal PRA clearance process as a delay in 
BIS’s ability to begin immediate information collection from companies engaged in the sale of 
recoverable CMMs to ensure a continued and adequate supply of these items, which are scarce 
and critical materials essential to the national defense. The Department has determined the 
following conditions have been met: 
a. The collection of information is needed prior to the expiration of time periods normally 

[Page 13]
associated with a routine submission for review under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction 
Act in view of DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs,  
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/07/presidential-determination-pursuant-
to-section-101-of-the-defense-production-act-of-1950-as-amended-on-recoverable-critical-
minerals-and-materials/. 
b. The collection of information is essential to the mission of the Department, in particular to 
promote the national defense; and to allocate materials, services, and facilities in such a manner, 
upon such conditions, and to such extent as the President shall deem necessary or appropriate to 
promote the national defense, as defined in the DPA.
c. Public harm is reasonably likely to result if BIS were to follow the normal clearance 
procedures before issuing this information collection. A delay in BIS’s ability to begin 
immediate information collection from companies engaged in the sale of recoverable CMMs 
will lead to increased scarcity of these materials through additional exports, posing an imminent 
threat to U.S. military readiness and critical infrastructure sectors. BIS is required to issue 
official actions under the DPAS regulation and collect certain critical information from 
companies engaged in the sale of recoverable CMMs to effectuate DPA Determination on 
Recoverable CMMs and ensure compliance with the DPAS regulation and the official actions 
issued, as described in sections 700.80, 700.81, and 700.91 of the DPAS regulation. These 
collection requirements may include buyer information, the applicable material and Schedule B 
code, quantity of material, and value of the sale. BIS may issue additional allocation orders as 
required to meet the objectives of DPA Determination on Recoverable CMMs. 
For the reasons stated above, BIS has requested, and OMB has granted, a new information 
collection for this rule under OMB control number 0694-0148 with the title Directive Allocation 
Orders under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System in Response to Presidential 
Determination on Recoverable Critical Minerals and Materials. All materials for the currently 
approved collection can be accessed at www.reginfo.gov. Separately, BIS will be publishing a 60 

[Page 14]
day notice to take comment on the emergency collection.
List of Subjects in 15 CFR Part 700
Administrative practice and procedure, Business and industry, Government contracts, 
National defense, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Strategic and critical materials
For the reasons set forth in the preamble, part 700 of subchapter A of 15 CFR chapter VII is 
amended as follows:
PART 700—DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
1. The authority citation continues to read as follows: 
Authority: 50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.; 42 U.S.C. 5195, et seq.; 50 U.S.C. 3816; 10 U.S.C. 2538; 50 
U.S.C. 82; E.O. 12656, 53 FR 226, 3 CFR, 1988 Comp., p. 585; E.O. 12742, 56 FR 1079, 3 
CFR, 1991 Comp., p. 309; E.O. 13603, 77 FR 16651, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 225.
2. Section 700.8 is amended by revising the definition of “person” to read as follows:
§ 700.8 Definitions.
* * * * *
Person. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other organized 
group of persons, or legal successor or representative thereof; or any authorized State or local 
government or agency thereof; and for purposes of administration of this part, includes the 
United States Government and any authorized foreign government or international organization 
or agency thereof, delegated authority as provided in this part (for Directive Allocation Orders 
issued by a temporary final rule, see supplement no. 1 to part 700, paragraph (b). 
* * * * *
3. Revise § 700.34 to read as follows:
§ 700.34 Elements of an allocation order.
Allocation orders may be issued directly to the affected persons, by constructive notice to 

[Page 15]
the parties through publication in the Federal Register, or by the publication of a temporary final 
rule in the Federal Register. This section describes the elements that each order must include.
(a) Elements to be included in all allocation orders. (1) A detailed description of the 
required allocation action(s), including its relationship to previously or subsequently received 
DX rated orders, DO rated orders, and unrated orders.
(2) Specific start and end calendar dates for each required allocation action.
(b) Elements to be included in orders issued directly to affected persons. (1) A statement 
that reads in substance: “This is an allocation order certified for national defense use. [Insert the 
name of the person receiving the order] is required to comply with this order, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR part 700).”
(2) The written signature on a manually placed order, or the digital signature or name on 
an electronically placed order, of an authorized official or employee of the Department of 
Commerce.
(c) Elements to be included in an allocation order issued by constructive notice through 
publication in the Federal Register. (1) A statement that reads in substance: “This is an 
allocation order certified for national defense use. [Insert the name(s) of the person(s) to whom 
the order applies or a description of the class of persons to whom the order applies] is (are) 
required to comply with this order, in accordance with the provisions of the Defense Priorities 
and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR part 700).”
(2) The order must be signed by an authorized official or employee of the Department of 
Commerce.
(d) Elements to include in an allocation order issued by publication of a temporary final 
rule in the Federal Register in supplement no. 1 to part 700. (1) A statement/temporary final rule 
that reads in substance: “This is an allocation order certified for national defense use. [Insert the 
name(s) of the person(s) to whom the order applies or a description of the class of persons to 
whom the order applies] is (are) required to comply with this order, in accordance with the 

[Page 16]
provisions of the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR part 700).”
(2) The order must be signed by an authorized official or employee of the Department of 
Commerce.
(3) The temporary final rule will include: 
(i) A statement of the specific objective(s) of the allocation order;
(ii) A list of the materials, services, and/or facilities to be allocated;
(iii) A list or description of the sources of the materials, services, or facilities subject to 
the allocation order; and
(iv) A detailed description of the provisions that will be included in the allocation order, 
including the type of allocation order, the percentages or quantity to be allocated, the relationship 
with previously or subsequently received priority rated and unrated contracts and orders, and the 
duration of the allocation order (e.g., anticipated start and end dates).
4. Amend § 700.80 by adding introductory text to read as follows:
§ 700.80 Adjustments or exceptions.
The adjustments or exceptions described in this section apply to this part and official 
actions issued under this part, except for Directive Allocation Orders issued by a temporary final 
rule. The adjustment or exception process for Directive Allocation Orders issued by a temporary 
final rule are contained in each Directive Allocation Order, see supplement no. 1 to part 700, 
paragraph (c). 
*****
5. Supplement no. 1 to part 700 is added to read as follows:
Supplement No. 1 to Part 700 - Directive Allocation Order and Additional Requirements 
for Recoverable Critical Minerals and Materials 
(a) Scope. This is a Directive Allocation Order certified for national defense use. U.S. 
persons engaged in the sale of materials described and identified by Schedule B codes listed in 
Table 1 of this supplement are required to comply with this order, in accordance with the 

[Page 17]
provisions of the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR part 700). U.S. 
persons engaged in the sale of such materials must allocate the listed monthly sales requirement 
percent to U.S. persons, as specified in Table 1. The effective dates of the Directive Allocation 
Order are listed in Table 1 to this supplement. U.S. persons subject to this Directive Allocation 
Order are required to comply with this order, in accordance with the provisions of this part (15 
CFR part 700). This Directive Allocation Order applies to rated orders and unrated orders. U.S. 
persons must continue to fill rated orders for black mass (Schedule B codes 8549.13.00.00, 
8549.14.00.00, and 8549.19.00.00) and tungsten waste and scrap (Schedule B code 
8101.97.00.00) from U.S. persons in accordance with this part.
(b) Definitions. The definitions in this paragraph apply to this supplement only. In the 
case where a term is defined in both § 700.8 and (b) of this supplement, the definition in (b) of 
this supplement supersedes the definition in § 700.8. 
“Black mass” means any shredded lithium-ion battery scrap that contains cathode 
material (which may include aluminum, copper, iron, lithium, cobalt, nickel, and manganese), 
anode material (graphite, silicon) or other residual battery cell materials.
“Person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other 
organized group of persons, or legal successor or representative thereof. 
“Sale” means transactions in any state, territory, or possession of the United States, in 
accordance with 15 CFR 700.92(a), and deliveries to other persons, including deliveries to 
affiliates and subsidiaries of a person and deliveries from one branch, division, or section of a 
single entity to another branch, division, or section under common ownership or control, as 
described in 15 CFR 700.92(b).
“United States” means any state, territory, possession of the United States, and the 
District of Columbia.
“U.S. person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other 
organized group of persons, or legal successor or representative thereof located in the United 

[Page 18]
States.
(c) Authorizations for Adjustments and Exceptions. For purposes of the Directive 
Allocation Order, U.S. persons who are subject to the Directive Allocation Order may submit a 
request for an adjustment or exception. BIS may authorize both company-specific and generally 
applicable adjustments or exceptions – i.e., a DPAS license –from the domestic sale requirement 
at its discretion, consistent with the determination that the restrictions covered by this rule are 
necessary or appropriate to promote the national defense. In addition, BIS may authorize interim 
relief – i.e., a DPAS temporary license – while a request is pending. For purposes of this 
Directive Allocation Order, U.S. persons who are subject to the domestic sales requirement may 
submit a request to BIS, for an adjustment or exception on the grounds that, among others:
(1) The domestic sales requirement results in an undue or exceptional hardship on that 
person not suffered generally by others in similar situations and circumstances.
(2) The consequence of complying with the domestic sales requirement is contrary to the 
intent of the DPA or this part – for example, because it would reduce the domestic supply of 
CMMs.
(3) A U.S. person plans to sell black mass and tungsten waste and scrap to a person 
located outside the United States for processing or refining, and then the processed/refined 
material will be returned to the United States.  
(4) Compliance with the domestic sales requirement will result in irreparable harm to a 
U.S. person who is subject to the order.
(5) Additional time is needed to comply with the domestic sales requirements. 
Requests for adjustments and exceptions must be made in writing and provided to BIS 
via email at DPASAllocations@bis.doc.gov. Each request for adjustment or exception must 
contain a complete statement of all the facts and circumstances related to the domestic sales 
requirement from which relief is sought, a full and precise statement of the reasons why relief 
should be provided; and relevant supporting documents or data to support the request.

[Page 19]
 The submission of a request for adjustment or exception shall not relieve any U.S. 
person from the obligation of complying with the provisions the Directive Allocation Order in 
while the request is being considered unless such interim relief is granted in writing by BIS. BIS 
intends to respond to requests for adjustment of or exceptions to compliance within fourteen (14) 
days, but in any event, responses to requests will be consistent with section 700.80. 
If an adjustment or exception is authorized by BIS, BIS will provide to the requestor a 
DPAS authorization, in writing, which will specify the Schedule B codes the adjustment or 
exception applies to, the adjustment or exception terms (which may include the quantity or 
volume authorized), and the period of validity of the adjustment or exception. The requester must 
comply with the terms specified in the authorization.
A DPAS authorization granted for a Directive Allocation Order adjustment or exception 
is neither equivalent to, nor replaces, licenses or other authorizations to export, re-export, or 
transfer (in-country) commodities, technology, or software pursuant to the Export Administration 
Regulations (15 CFR Parts 730-774). U.S. persons granted a DPAS authorization must otherwise 
adhere to U.S. export control regulations.
A decision may be appealed to the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. (For 
information on the appeal procedure, see § 700.81.)
(d) Compliance.
U.S. persons are required to comply with the Directive Allocation Order and the terms of 
any adjustment or exception granted, in accordance with 15 CFR 700.35. Subparts J and L 
continue to apply.
Table 1: Directive Allocation Order Domestic Sales Requirements
Schedule B 
Code
Description Monthly 
Sales 
Requirement
Effective 
Date
Expiration 
Date
8101.97.00.00 Tungsten Waste and Scrap 100% [INSERT 
DATE 21 
DAYS 
[INSERT 
DATE 386 
DAYS 

[Page 20]
Schedule B 
Code
Description Monthly 
Sales 
Requirement
Effective 
Date
Expiration 
Date
AFTER 
DATE OF 
PUBLICATI
ON IN THE 
FEDERAL 
REGISTER]
AFTER 
DATE OF 
PUBLICATI
ON IN THE 
FEDERAL 
REGISTER]
8549.13.00.00 Electrical and electronic 
waste and scrap: waste 
and scrap of primary cells, 
primary batteries and 
electric accumulators; 
spent primary cells, spent 
primary batteries and 
spent electric 
accumulators: sorted by 
chemical type and not 
containing lead, cadmium 
or mercury. Sales 
requirement only applies 
if the waste and scrap 
meet the definition of 
black mass, as described 
in Section II.B.
100% [INSERT 
DATE 21 
DAYS 
AFTER 
DATE OF 
PUBLICATI
ON IN THE 
FEDERAL 
REGISTER]
[INSERT 
DATE 386 
DAYS 
AFTER 
DATE OF 
PUBLICATI
ON IN THE 
FEDERAL 
REGISTER]
8549.14.00.00 Electrical and electronic 
waste and scrap: waste 
and scrap of primary cells, 
primary batteries and 
electric accumulators; 
spent primary cells, spent 
primary batteries and 
spent electric 
accumulators: unsorted 
and not containing lead, 
cadmium or mercury. 
Sales requirement only 
applies if the waste and 
scrap meet the definition 
of black mass, as 
described in Section II.B.
100% [INSERT 
DATE 21 
DAYS 
AFTER 
DATE OF 
PUBLICATI
ON IN THE 
FEDERAL 
REGISTER]
[INSERT 
DATE 386 
DAYS 
AFTER 
DATE OF 
PUBLICATI
ON IN THE 
FEDERAL 
REGISTER]
8549.19.00.00 Electrical and electronic 
waste and scrap of 
primary cells, primary 
batteries and electric 
accumulators; spent 
primary cells, primary 
batteries and electric 
accumulators: other. Sales 
requirement only applies 
100% [INSERT 
DATE 21 
DAYS 
AFTER 
DATE OF 
PUBLICATI
ON IN THE 
FEDERAL 
REGISTER]
[INSERT 
DATE 386 
DAYS 
AFTER 
DATE OF 
PUBLICATI
ON IN THE 
FEDERAL 
REGISTER]

[Page 21]
Schedule B 
Code
Description Monthly 
Sales 
Requirement
Effective 
Date
Expiration 
Date
if the waste and scrap 
meet the definition of 
black mass, as described 
in Section II.B.
Jessica Curyto,
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Technology Security.
[FR Doc. 2026-16078 Filed: 8/4/2026 4:15 pm; Publication Date:  8/6/2026]