CLA-2-87:RR:NC:4:102 818084  
Mr. Jerrold E. Anderson
Doherty, Rumble & Butler
200 Minnesota World Trade Center
30 East Seventh Street
Saint Paul, MN  55101-4999
RE:  The tariff classification of an automobile wheel hub assembly from China
Dear Mr. Anderson:
	In your letter dated December 29, 1995, on behalf of your client, Transcom, Inc.,  you requested a tariff classification ruling.  
       
	The item at issue, part number TZ8.001, is one of four nearly identical versions of a double flanged wheel hub assembly.  It consists of a flanged outer hub that contains two complete tapered roller bearings.  A flanged spindle, with splined inner surface and five mounting lugs, is pressed into the bearings to complete the assembly.  The unit resembles, and functions equivalent to, a third generation tapered roller wheel hub bearing for use on the drive wheels of an automobile.  Due to its construction we would not view this as a tapered roller bearing but rather, as an automotive component containing two bearings.
	The applicable subheading for the wheel hub assemblies will be 8708.99.8080, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS), which provides for other parts and accessories of motor vehicles, other, other.  The rate of duty will be *.  
 
	It is the opinion of this office that the subject wheel hub assemblies would not be subject to antidumping duties under the current Department of Commerce investigation on tapered roller bearings from China, as published in the Federal Register on June 15, 1987.  Should you desire a binding ruling on the applicability of this ADA case to you merchandise, please write directly to the Department of Commerce, Office of Compliance, Washington, D.C.
	This ruling is being issued under the provisions of Section 177 of the Customs Regulations (19 C.F.R. 177).
	A copy of this ruling or the control number indicated above should be provided with the entry documents filed at the time this merchandise is imported.  If you have any questions regarding the ruling, contact National Import Specialist Karl J. Riedl at 212-466-5493.
Sincerely,
Roger J. Silvestri
								Director
								National Commodity
            							Specialist Division