# Port of Savannah cruises to strong August; tariff impacts still seen at Port of Brunswick * The Port of Savannah saw a 9% year-over-year increase in cargo volume in August, marking its third-busiest month ever. * While Savannah's container volumes have grown, the Port of Brunswick's auto and machinery cargo has declined due to tariffs. The Port of Savannah continued another month of healthy container volumes in August, logging a 9% year-over-year increase in cargo, GPA officials announced at a board meeting Tuesday. The volumes marked the third busiest month in Georgia Ports Authority history even as uncertainty around tariffs have persisted throughout the calendar year. (The year) is better than expected,” said GPA President and CEO Griff Lynch. The Port of Savannah logged its second-busiest fiscal year on record at its close on June 30. The growth was anchored by record months in February, March and April due to customers frontloading cargo in anticipation of tariffs. June finally saw a tariff-related dip in cargo, but the start of this fiscal year has been strong. “I think consumption is better than expected, and that's a good thing." But while the Port of Savannah has remained resilient to volatility in global trade, the Port of Brunswick has been a different story. Brunswick’s port is the home of GPA’s Roll-On/Roll-Off operations, built to move motor vehicles and heavy machinery. Autos and machinery out of Bunswick’s Colonel’s Island terminal are down nearly 12% fiscal year to date, and down 14% year-over-year in August. For container outlook, the final quarter of the calendar year is typically a slower time for cargo, and Lynch predicted some moderation in coming months. The prospects of Imelda came roughly one year after Hurricane Helen ravaged Coastal Georgia and halted port operations. As of Tuesday morning, port operations were active and Lynch was not expecting any major disruptions to shipments. "Had Imelda taken a different track, we would have had some disruption, and we won't have that now." Tuesday was also a major meeting for GPA’s future growth. The Georgia Ports's approach is to have it when it's needed," said GPA Board Chairman Alec Poitevint.