Thank you for opening your Chartbook email.
A Ship for Canada in a United Kingdom Shipyard Her Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO) and Waterlow and Sons Ltd (active 1810–1960s) and Charles Pears (1873–1958) Manchester Art Gallery
YKK has spent decades mastering the global supply chain. Now it has to weather the Trump-tariff era.
The billions of zippers YKK makes each year are used by iconic brands such as Levi’s and Adidas; fast-fashion giants like H&M, Zara and Shein; and gorpcore pioneers Patagonia, the North Face and Arc’teryx, along with niche competitors like Swedish outfitter Klättermusen. YKK supplies roughly 40% of the global apparel industry, and besides that, it makes zippers for purses, luggage, sleeping bags, tents and many other types of equipment and accessories. … To show how vulnerable US manufacturers would be in the event of an all-out trade war with Mexico and Canada, Reed explained the back-and-forth border crossings necessary for getting YKK’s hook-and-loop system inside American car seats. “The upholstery industry is in Mexico, so we sew the loop in Mexico,” he said. “We sell the loop to vendors who sew it onto the upholstery in Mexico, then that upholstery gets shipped to Mexico, Canada and the United States, where it waits for the seats to arrive.” The seats themselves often come from China. Meanwhile, the hook portion—the nonfuzzy half of the Velcro-like system—is made by YKK in the US using raw materials procured from Indonesia, Brazil and elsewhere. From there the hook side goes to seat manufacturers in Canada and the US so it can be installed. “Those naked seats get shipped to other factories in Canada and the United States, where the upholstery meets the naked seat and the hook meets the loop,” he continued. “And then those finished seats go to Canada, the US and Mexico, where the automakers install the seats into the cars.” So, even in the best-case scenario, either the hook or the loop would incur at least one tariff charge before meeting inside a car seat whose other constituent parts could well be subject to separate tariffs of their own, along with the finished car seat itself, depending on where it was installed. Yoshida Kōgyō Kabushikigaisha, or Yoshida Manufacturing Corp., was founded by Tadao Yoshida in Tokyo in 1934. Its signature product, the slide fastener, had first been produced by Universal Fastener Co. in New Jersey in 1893, as a means of closing up boots. The American company’s initial design sold poorly, however, and didn’t evolve into a modern zipper until 1913, when a Swedish American engineer improved on it. After the US entered World War I, the government placed large orders with the company, which eventually became Talon International Inc., for zippers to be used in aviation suits and life vests. When Yoshida first came across the slide fastener in the early 1930s while working in the import and export business, it was still a novelty in the fashion world. He was convinced of its potential, however, given Japan’s embrace of Western-style clothing in place of the belted kimono. For years he made YKK zippers by hand, hammering down the individual “elements” (what most of us would call the teeth). In 1950 he imported four expensive chain machines to automate this part of the process. The shift improved the quality of YKK’s zippers enough to distinguish them from others on the Japanese market, which were thought to be cheap and disposable. Five years later, Yoshida packed up his machinery and moved the company to resource-rich Kurobe, which allowed him to build up YKK’s production processes and start making everything in one place. He’d also begun traveling the world, looking in places as far-flung as Singapore and Caracas for products his fasteners could help bind together and for ways to improve his processes. When the Korean War caused the price of zinc and copper to soar, YKK developed a durable alloy called aluminum 56S, for use not just in zippers but also in window pane sashes like the ones Yoshida had seen coming off an assembly line during his visit to a US factory. Those sashes were behind his decision to open YKK’s first architectural products factory, in Kurobe in 1959. The following year, the company opened a US subsidiary in New York, which operated a small factory and warehouse in Manhattan’s Garment District. “We had many customers and many wholesalers there,” said Sarumaru. “Now it’s all fancy stores or offices … but in the late ’70s, workers were sewing the garments, making the garments right there.” At the time roughly three-quarters of the apparel sold in the US was domestically produced, and YKK sought to capture as much market share as possible from its American rival Talon. The company opened branches in Philadelphia, Baltimore and Boston to pursue customers in the high-fashion sector. New facilities in Texas and Georgia focused on supplying jeans manufacturers, and ones in Chicago and Los Angeles targeted workwear and outerwear makers, respectively.
Source: Bloomberg
HEY READERS,
THANK YOU for opening the Chartbook email. I hope it brightens your day.
I enjoy putting out the newsletter, but tbh, what keeps this flow going is the generosity of those readers who clicked the subscription button.
If you are persuaded to click, please consider the annual subscription of $50. It is both better value for you and a much better deal for me, as it involves only one credit card charge. Why feed the payments companies if we don’t have to.
And when you sign up, there are no more irritating “paywalls”'
Distributional Growth Accounting: Education and the Reduction of Global Poverty, 1980-2019
For contributing subscribers only.
AI: “Hit over the head by the emergence of scale”
Mr Clark of Anthropic describes himself as “a technological pessimist hit over the head by emergence at scale”, because of the comparative ease of making ever smarter machines. More data and more computing power at one end of the training pipeline has led, over and over again, to more intelligence at the other end (see chart 2). And, he adds, “The music isn’t stopping.” Over the next two years, more and more computing power will be added at multiple AI labs.
Source: The Economist
“Who are these guys that just keep coming?” Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., speaking of the serial collapse of U.S. financial institutions.
Source: Regulation by Deal: The Government’s Response to The Financial Crisis
A Thunderstorm, Harwich: Submarines Leaving Port Charles Pears (1873–1958) IWM (Imperial War Museums)
Global History of Capitalism Case Study #17 April 2020 The Globalization of Mexican Tortillas: GRUMA and the Mass Production of Corn Flour
In the twentieth century, one firm in particular came to dominate the global corn tortilla industry: GRUMA, a Mexican corporation founded in 1949 by the businessman Roberto González. Since entering into business at the age of 18, González had acquired a reputation as a shrewd political operator and strategist. At GRUMA, he invested heavily in research and development with the aim of speeding up tortilla production and reducing operating costs. This investment paid off. By the time of González’s death in 2012, GRUMA operated 100 plants around the world and sold its products in more than 100 countries.4 As of 2014, GRUMA had grown into one of the world’s largest manufacturers of corn flour and tortilla products.5 By the late 1940s, technological innovation had sped up the tortilla production process. The tortilleras could produce several thousand units an hour. Small factories began to spring up in neighbourhoods across Mexico to satisfy the growing demand for fresh, machine-produced tortillas. The transition to millwork did not, however, mark the endpoint of industrialization – instead, it represented its beginning. Agrarian reform and the masculinization of tortilla making accompanied the opening of the new mills. This transitionary period laid the groundwork for a large-scale corporate takeover.17 Roberto M. González Barrera, a businessman from the northeastern state of Nuevo León, spied an opportunity in this moment. González recognized that making corn dough, even when using a machine to grind the kernels, remained a slow and inconsistent process. Dough made in this way had to be used up quickly before it soured and decomposed. In a story retold so often that it is hard to divide fact from fiction, it is claimed that González travelled to the Mexican border town of Reynosa in 1948. While there, the young González came across a mill owner using a little-known masa harina machine to grind dried nixtamal into flour. According to company lore, González quickly saw the solution to the industry’s technological impasse: rather than making tortillas from fresh dough, industrial factories could just add water to a pre-prepared flour of nixtamal.18 González persuaded his father (an engineer) to join forces and go into business with him. The duo founded GRUMA, better known today by its brand names of Maseca, Mission Foods and Guerrero. The González family bought the masa flour mill for 75,000 Mexican pesos (50,000 dollars in 2018), using up most of their savings in the process.19 The following year, the family transferred the recycled mill to Cerralvo and registered it under the trade name of Molinos Azteca (Maseca). In this early stage, 45 employees worked around the clock to produce 150 tons of masa harina (nixtamalized corn flour) each month. To make masa harina, workers fed lime-soaked corn dough through a grinding mill and then quickly dried the coarse particles at a high temperature. Industrial laborers then passed any remaining large particles back through the machine to be reground and resifted.20 While the dehydrated tortilla flour industry initially operated on a small scale, GRUMA faced stiff competition. By 1950, the Mexican government had made its first foray into the industry with the statesupported corn plant MICONSA, now better known as the privately owned Minsa. With the financial backing of the national development bank, MICONSA purchased subsidized corn from the State Food Agency, which it then ground into flour and sold to poorer consumers via agency shops. As the historian Jeffrey Pilcher has argued, the government’s decision to subsidize food production benefited both the state and private enterprise. With its policy of providing cheap tortillas to the cities, the State Food Agency aimed to avoid a repeat of the tortilla riots of 1943 and win populist political support. At the same time, subsidizing grain prices allowed the agency to contain union demands for higher wages and cosy up to private businesses who benefited from reduced purchasing costs.21 In the early years, MICONSA and GRUMA operated on a reasonably level playing field. The two companies frequently collaborated on research in a quest to perfect the formula for tortilla masa. Inevitably, however, there came a point when their two paths diverged from one another. After more than a decade of experimentation, GRUMA began to sell its product across the country, and in bulk. By the end of 1960, MICONSA produced 370,000 tons of corn flour to GRUMA’s one million.22 4 Creative Commons Copyright: Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0)The González family’s burgeoning success owed no small debt to their political savvy. The entrepreneurs used powerful political channels to divert resources from MICONSA as they cultivated a cosy relationship with bureaucrats at the same time. For many years, GRUMA had benefited from government largesse in the form of financial rewards, special dispensations, and corn subsidies. During the mid-1960s, this stepped up a level as the company received loans and permits from the minister of trade and industry to open new mills.
Source: Oxford Centre for Global History
The Indian Air Force is in crisis.
For contributing subscribers only.
A table from DeepSeek shows the distribution across different models of combat aircraft.
At the end, a door.
AT THE END, A DOOR 
I walked through 
and on the other side 
I thought I’d look back 
through the door 
“that was another life” 
here I am on this side 
standing looking 
same life
Source: McLane, Maureen N.. My Poets (p. 173). Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Kindle Edition.
A Corner of the Dockyard, Rosyth: Winter Charles Pears (1873–1958) IWM (Imperial War Museums)
If you’ve scrolled this far, you know you want to click: