Savannah, Ga. – December 6, 2023 – The Broe Group’s Savannah Gateway Industrial Hub (SGIH) has added global automotive parts supplier Kyungshin America Corporation (KAC) to its 2,600-acre multimodal logistics park near Georgia’s Port of Savannah. A division of the South Korean Kyungshin Corporation, KAC’s new operation will import and distribute automotive components to Hyundai Motor Group’s new $7.5B electric vehicle plant in Savannah as well as the growing automotive manufacturing network throughout the southeastern United States.
“Savannah Gateway Industrial Hub provides tremendous geographic and multi-modal benefits for park tenants,” said Broe Real Estate Group Senior Vice President Sean Fitzsimmons. “KAC’s new facility is strategically positioned with the Port of Savannah and the new Hyundai Meta Plan plant – both within 15 miles. This creates exceptional supply chain efficiency and connectivity to global markets while leveraging Effingham County’s strong work force and education system.”
The South Korean based company produces wire harnesses for automotive companies and is a certified Tier One supplier to Hyundai. KAC’s new 136,000 SF facility is expected to open in February. The move supports Kyungshin’ s continued North American production expansion.
“We are excited to welcome KAC to Georgia,” said Effingham County Industrial Development Authority CEO Brandt Herndon. “This addition is a great example of the dynamic partnerships that will serve Hyundai’s new Georgia production plant and we are proud to see world-class companies continue to bring new jobs and new investment to Effingham County.”
SGIH is a public-private partnership between the Effingham County Industrial Development Authority (ECIDA), The Broe Group’s real estate affiliate, Broe Real Estate Group, and its transportation affiliate, OmniTRAX. Located 12 miles from the Port of Savannah, SGIH provides dual rail access to the Class I rail networks of CSX and Norfolk Southern.
About Broe Real Estate Group
Broe Real Estate Group, an affiliate of The Broe Group, acquires, develops and manages commercial real estate assets. Affiliated companies own and manage office and industrial properties, medical office buildings and multi-family communities across the country, including premier assets in many of the most desirable markets. The Broe Group has a 50-year history of value-add real estate investing in Colorado and across the United States. We improve value though the implementation of focused business plans that increase cash flow and create stable income streams. For more information, visit broerealestate.com.
About OmniTRAX, Inc.
As one of North America’s largest and fastest growing private railroad and transportation management companies, OmniTRAX’s core capabilities range from providing transportation and supply chain management services to railroad and port companies, to providing intermodal and industrial switching operations to railroads, ports and a diverse group of industrial companies. Through its affiliation with The Broe Group and its portfolio of managed companies, OmniTRAX also has the unique capability of offering specialized industrial development and real estate solutions, both on and off the rail network managed by OmniTRAX. More information is available at omnitrax.com.
About The Broe Group
Founded in 1972, The Broe Group is a private, multi-billion-dollar investment group with diversified holdings in real estate, rail, infrastructure, energy, agriculture, water, healthcare and technology throughout 37 North American states and provinces. Its deep operational knowledge derived from owning and operating multi-billion-dollar businesses and the global economic insights gleaned from serving its vast Fortune 500 clientele are strategic differentiators. The Broe Group’s entrepreneurial focus enables it to find true value wherever it resides. For more information, visit broe.com.