[Page 1]
Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. Integrated Report 2026
YAMAHA MOTOR CO., LTD.
2500 SHINGAI, IWATA, SHIZUOKA, JAPAN
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/
INTEGRA TED
REPORT 2026
Fiscal year ended December 31, 2025

[Page 2]
The three tuning forks in Yamaha Motor’ s logo originally 
represented the strong ties among manufacturing, marketing, and technology. 
Over time, their meaning has evolved to also symbolize harmony 
among customers, society, and employees. 
By creating resonance between people’ s passions and ideas, 
we continue to create              beyond expectations. 
“Revs your Heart” 
embodies our desire to always deliver ever-greater
excitement to people everywhere, 
like the rising revs of an engine.
Kando
Corporate Profile Video


[Page 3]
Editorial Policy 
This report covers Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd., its 148 subsidiaries, and its 22 affiliates (“the Yamaha Motor Group”; as of December 31, 2025). 
Where the scope of data compilation differs, it is noted accordingly. 
Scope 
This report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2025 (“fiscal 2025” or “FY2025”). It also includes some information from before 
and after that period. 
Reporting Period 
Management Principles 
Contents
01  Introduction
02 Corporate Philosophy 
03 The Values of Yamaha Motor
04 History of Yamaha Motor 
05 Yamaha Motor at a Glance
06 Roadmap toward Our 
 Long-Term Vision for 2030
07 From the President 
11  Value Creation Story 
11 Value Creation Story
12 Capital Input 
13 Sources of Our 
 Competitiveness 
 13 Branding
 14 Design 
 15 Intellectual Property
 16 Research and Development 
 17 Procurement 
 18 Manufacturing 
 19 Marketing
 20 Value Creation Case Studies 
 22 Materiality Issues 
52  Governance 
52 Directors and Audit & Supervisory 
 Board Members 
53 From the Chairman 
54 Dialogue between Outside Directors 
 and Shareholders 
57 Corporate Governance 
62 Risk and Compliance Management 
64  Fact Data
64 Financial Highlights 
65 Eleven-Year Summary 
66 Corporate Information / 
 Stock Information 
24  Medium- to 
       Long-Term Strategies 
43  Sustainability Strategies 
24 Summary of Medium-
 Term Management Plan (2025–2027) 
26 From the Chief General 
 Manager of the Corporate 
 Planning & Finance Center 
29 Digital Transformation Strategy 
30 Human Resources Strategy
32 Strategies by Business 
 32 Land Mobility 
 35 Marine Products
 37 Outdoor Land Vehicle
 39 Robotics
 41 Financial Services 
43 Overview of 
 Sustainability Strategies 
44 Environmental Plan 2050 
45 Climate Change 
47 Resource Recycling 
47 Biodiversity
48 TNFD 
49 Safety and Reliability
50 Occupational Health and Safety / 
 Health and Productivity Management 
51 Respect for Human Rights  
Key Highlights 
From the President 
Yamaha Motor seeks to become a strong, 
robust company that adapts quickly to 
change. The message from the President 
explains how the Company is advancing 
transformation across organizational 
structure, corporate culture, and business 
operations to achieve that goal. It also 
outlines the Compan y ’s direction for 
achieving sustainable growth through cost 
reforms and renewed strengthening of 
core businesses. 
▶ P.07 Disclosure Based on 
the TNFD Framework 
The Yamaha Motor Group has grown by 
providing a more fulfilling life to people all 
over the world through products that are 
frequently used to connect with nature. In 
accordance with this approach, in 2025 we 
conducted an impact assessment in line 
with the TNFD framework, the results of 
which are presented in this section. 
▶ P.48 Dialogue between 
Outside Directors 
and Shareholders
In 2025, we reorganized the Executive 
Personnel Committee into the Nomination 
Committee and the Compensation 
Committee. Presented here is a dialogue 
session held that year featuring the outside 
directors who chair the two committees. 
▶ P.54
1 2 3
Corporate Philosophy
Corporate Mission 
Offering new excitement and a more fulfilling life 
for people all over the world 
Yamaha Motor strives to realize peoples’ dreams with ingenuity and passion, and 
to always be a company people look to for the next exciting product or concept 
that provides exceptional value and deep satisfaction. 
Kando *  Creating Company
*             is a Japanese word for the simultaneous feelings of deep satisfaction and 
intense excitement that we experience when we encounter something of exceptional value.
Kando
Action Guidelines 
Acting with Speed 
Meeting change 
with swift and 
informed action 
Persistence 
Working with tenacity 
to achieve desired results,
and then evaluating them 
Spirit of Challenge
Courage to set 
higher goals 
without fear of failure 
1. Creating value that surpasses customer expectations 
2. Establishing a corporate environment that fosters self-esteem 
3. Fulfilling social responsibilities globally 
To continue to produce value that moves people, we must remain keenly aware of the customer’ s evolving needs. 
We must strive to find success by always surpassing customer expectations with safe, high-quality products and services. 
We must build a corporate culture that encourages enterprise and enhances corporate vitality. 
The focus will be on nurturing the creativity and ability of our employees, with an equitable system of evaluation and rewards. 
As a good corporate citizen, we act from a worldwide perspective and in accordance with global standards. 
We must conduct our corporate activities with concern for the environment and communities and fulfill our social 
responsibility with honesty and sincerity. 
This report sets forth the corporate philosophy and vision of Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. (“Yamaha Motor” or “the Company”), and explains how they 
interconnect with the strategies and strengths employed in their realization. The report aims to enhance the understanding of shareholders, 
investors, and other diverse stakeholders with regard to the Company’ s value creation in the medium to long term. In compiling this report, we 
referred to guidelines including the IFRS Foundation’ s                                                                                 , the Ministry of Economy, Trade and 
Industry’ s                                                 ,                         and the Cabinet Office’ s                                                                                                                  . 
Additional financial, sustainability-related, product, and other information is available on Yamaha Motor’ s official website. Please note that 
the “2026” in the title refers to the calendar year this report was published. 
International Integrated Reporting Framework
Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation Intellectual Property and Intangible Asset Governance Guidelines 
Guide to Information Disclosure 
Financial Information Non-Financial Information 
Integrated Report 2026 
• Information for investors  
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/ir/ 
•                                   (in Japanese only) 
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/jp/ir/library/security/ 
•    Fact Book 
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/ir/library/factbook/ 
• Financial data 
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/ir/data/ 
   Securities Report
• Corporate website 
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/ 
• 
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/
design_technology/technical_review/ 
• Sustainability-related information 
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/sustainability/ 
• 
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/ir/governance/ 
   Technical Review 
   Corporate Governance Report 


[Page 4]
“Enjoy Life” as the Driving Force for Taking on Challenges 
The idea of enjoying life is at the heart of Yamaha Motor’ s corporate philosophy. 
It is a philosophy rooted in the belief that life is enriched by taking action, embracing challenges, and experiencing moments that move the heart. 
As embodied in the phrase, “If you’ re going to do something, be the best,” Yamaha Motor’ s uncompromising pursuit of world-class value continues 
to support the creation of products that inspire the special form of excitement and satisfaction we call              and shape the future. 
A Heritage Passed Down since the Company’ s Founding 
Demand is something we create ourselves. 
Our deeply rooted approach to doing so is not only to 
conduct business in markets already developed by 
other companies but also to open up completely new 
markets by combining our proprietary technologies 
and products in order to create new value. 
Use good times to prepare for challenges 
ahead.  Genichi Kawakami, founder and first president 
of Yamaha Motor, believed that we must prepare for 
the future by finding new business opportunities 
when the Company ’s performance is good. 
In keeping with that philosophy, Yamaha Motor was 
created by spinning off the motorcycle department 
from a musical instrument company, Nippon Gakki, 
and grew by diversifying its business portfolio. 
Kando
An enjoyed life is a fulfilled life. 
One day, we want to spread this idea 
throughout Japan and the rest of the world. 
To do that, we must first enjoy life ourselves, 
understand the essence of that joy, and 
then share it with others.
Kyo An Shi Ki
Creating              Kando Jin-Ki Kanno 
Creating 
Demand 
Our Corporate Mission is to be a “            
Creating Company.” While remaining in harmony 
with society and the environment, Yamaha 
Motor strives to offer customers around the 
world products and services that bring joy and 
unexpected exhilaration that enriches their
lives with new fulfillment. We take pride in
our product creation and manufacturing 
(                      ), which offer a high level of not 
just functional but also emotional value. 
Kando
Monozukuri
This is Yamaha Motor ’s unique 
development philosophy. Technology born 
from                       seeks to deliver users the 
seductive exhilaration felt when they truly become 
one with their machine. Quantifying and 
fine-tuning this kind of exciting performance, 
which we call                       , and then building it 
into our products is an essential part of our 
Yamaha                       framework. We continually 
pursue                       , which lies hidden between the 
lines of product specifications. 
Monozukuri
Jin-Ki Kanno
Kanno Seino
Kanno Seino
Genichi Kawakami 
The founder of Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. and fourth 
president of Nippon Gakki Co., Ltd. (today’ s Yamaha 
Corporation), Kawakami dedicated his life to 
creating products that enrich and help people enjoy 
life. He traveled the world extensively to experience 
various cultures firsthand, and with the firm belief 
that “It isn’ t a product if it isn’ t world-class,” he took 
on the challenge of making motorcycles, outboard 
motors, and more. True to his words of “If you ’re 
going to do something, be the best,” he consistently 
pursued world-class excellence, and built a 
corporate culture rooted in the Spirit of Challenge 
and              . Kando
When Genichi Kawakami spoke of enjoying 
life, he was not referring simply to relaxation. 
He meant an active pursuit—a life of 
challenge and exploration. 
It reflects a mindset that seeks not just 
pleasure, but also honing one ’s abilities, 
pursuing personal growth, and experiencing 
the               that comes with that journey. 
This spirit is at the very foundation of 
Yamaha Motor ’s business philosophy. 
Kando 
The Values of Yamaha Motor 


[Page 5]
History of Yamaha Motor 
The Origins and Founding
of Yamaha Motor
Genichi Kawakami, the fourth 
president of Nippon Gakki and later 
founding president of Yamaha Motor, 
led a full-scale entry into the motorcycle 
market with the start of production 
of the YA-1, aiming to secure a 
foothold for growth beyond the realm 
of musical instruments. In 1955, 
Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. was established, 
while the YA-1 went on to win a 
number of races, demonstrating the 
Company ’s technological prowess. 
Taking on such challenges and 
generating results laid the foundation 
for business expansion throughout 
Japan and around the world.
Business Diversification 
and Acceleration 
of Motorization
Demand for motorcycles increased 
along with rapid economic growth, and 
motorization accelerated in Japan and 
worldwide. The pursuit of uniquely 
Yamaha Motor designs led to a range 
of different motorcycles that became 
hit products, establishing the 
Company ’s position in the domestic 
and international motorcycle 
markets. This in turn led us to 
enhance our production system and 
advance technological innovation. We 
also applied and developed our 
technologies to expand into a range of 
business fields including outboard 
motors, fiber-reinforced plastic 
boats, and utility vehicles. 
Entering the 
New Mobility Market 
In 1993, we pioneered the new 
eco-friendly mobility market with the 
launch of the PAS, the world ’s first 
electrically power-assisted bicycle.  
Later, we launched the eco-friendly 
F100A outboard motor and began 
stepping up our efforts to protect the 
environment and other initiatives for 
sustainability. Against a backdrop of 
increasing environmental awareness, 
electrically power-assisted bicycles 
have attracted particular attention as 
a new means of transportation, while 
the control technologies we acquired 
through the PAS have contributed in 
many ways to the development of 
mobility solutions.
1950s 1970s 1990s
Forward-Looking
Transformation 
In the new mobility category, in 2002 
we launched the Passol, an electric 
urban commuter moped with reduced 
environmental impact. Moreover, in 
2014 we launched Tricity, our first 
LMW* scooter, designed to inspire 
and capture new demand for urban 
transport. We have also continued to 
apply unmanned technologies to help 
save labor and raise efficiency in a 
variety of fields, including industry, 
agriculture, and forestry. 
2000s
 2020s onward
 YA-1 motorcycle
Land Mobility
1955
P-7 outboard motor
Marine Products
1960
OT11 land car
Outdoor Land Vehicle
1974
CAME1 industrial robot
Robotics
1976
Financial Services
2013
Postwar reconstruction 
1950s 
Japanese Economic Miracle;  
expansion of leisure culture 
1960s 
Introduction of emissions standards; oil crises 
1970s 
Emergence of bubble economy and
acceleration of internationalization 
1980s–1990s 
Rising environmental awareness; 
acceleration of digitalization 
2000s 
Guided by our Long-Term Vision for 
2030—ART for Human Possibilities—
we are working to resolve societal 
issues and revolutionize mobility as 
only we can, while advancing 
environmental strategies for achieving 
carbon neutrality. Based on new 
businesses and other endeavors forged 
through global partnerships and 
co-creation, we are accelerating our 
creation of social value. We aim to 
achieve sustainable growth by generating 
social and environment value while 
also achieving economic value.
Our Strengths
* Leaning Multi-Wheel (LMW): A registered Yamaha 
   Motor trademark (Japan Patent Office Trademark 
   #5646157) for vehicles with three or more wheels 
   that can lean through corners like a motorcycle.
For over 70 years since the Company’s founding, we have continually worked to create new value in motorcycles and various other fields, 
with development ideas originating from the consumer’s perspective. We utilize the strengths we have cultivated in creating a wide range 
of products to continue taking on the challenge of delivering new forms of              and more fulfilling lives to people around the world. Kando
New Forms of                Made 
Possible by Our People and 
Technologies
Kando


[Page 6]
Consolidated Performance 
(Fiscal year ended December 31, 2025) 
Revenue 
¥1,615. 1  billion 
Operating Profit 
¥108.7  billion 
The Land Mobility segment primarily comprises the 
Motorcycles and Smart Power Vehicle (SPV) businesses, 
and offers a wide range of products tailored to the 
characteristics of each market, from practical daily 
transportation to leisure, commercial, and sports use. 
Land Mobility 
Motorcycles, intermediate parts, knockdown parts for 
overseas production, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), recreational 
off-highway vehicles (ROVs), electrically power-assisted 
bicycles, electrically power-assisted bicycle drive units 
(e-Kits), electric wheelchairs, automobile engines, 
automobile components 
Revenue
¥527.6  billion 
Operating Profit 
¥53.6  billion 
In the Marine Products segment, we offer a lineup that 
includes outboard motors, boats, and personal watercraft, 
among other products, and have established a world-class 
presence in the marine market. 
Marine Products 
Outboard motors, personal watercraft, boats, fishing boats, 
utility boats 
Revenue
¥111.5  billion 
Operating Loss 
¥0.6  billion 
The wide-ranging lineup of the Robotics 
segment includes industrial robots, surface 
mounting technology (SMT)-related 
equipment used for manufacturing printed 
circuit boards, and semiconductor back-end 
processing equipment. 
Robotics 
Surface mounters, semiconductor 
post-processing equipment, 
industrial robots, industrial-use 
unmanned helicopters 
Revenue
¥114 .0  billion 
Operating Profit 
¥21. 1  billion 
We support the foundation of our operations by 
providing retail financing, wholesale financing, 
leases, insurance, and other financial services related 
to our products to customers and dealerships. 
Sales financing and leasing for Yamaha Motor products 
Revenue
¥17. 4  billion 
Operating Loss 
¥16.6  billion 
In the Others segment, we manufacture and sell 
generators and multipurpose engines based on 
small-engine technology, snow blowers, and 
other products. 
Generators, multipurpose engines, snow blowers, 
mobility services 
63.7% of Revenue
4.4% of Revenue
20.8% of Revenue
Notes: The Company changed its reportable segments from the previous “Land Mobility,” “Marine Products,” “Robotics,” and “Financial Services” to “Land Mobility,” “Marine Products,” “Outdoor Land Vehicle,” 
“Robotics,” and “Financial Services” from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2025. In 2026, as part of organizational changes, the UMS (unmanned systems, primarily industrial-use unmanned helicopters 
and drones) business was transferred to the “Others” segment with a view to expanding the industrial-use unmanned aircraft business.
Revenue by Region 
Revenue
¥148.5  billion 
Operating Loss
¥39.8  billion
We provide products for off-road sports, 
leisure activities, and golf courses, 
mainly in the North American market. 
Outdoor Land Vehicle 5.9% of Revenue
All-terrain vehicles (ATVs), 
recreational off-highway vehicles 
(ROVs), golf cars 
Yamaha Motor at a Glance 
Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. was founded in July 1955, when the motorcycle division of Nippon Gakki Co., Ltd. (today’ s Yamaha Corporation) was spun off to form an independent company. 
The Company has proactively entered international markets since the 1960s and has developed businesses based on its foundational powertrain, chassis and hull, electronic control, 
and manufacturing technologies. Around the world, we offer a diverse lineup of products that create              by leveraging our technologies and keen sensibilities. Kando 
Financial Services 4.5% of Revenue
Others 0.7% of Revenue
Asia 
40.1%
Europe 
13.6%
North America 
21.6%
Japan 6.1%
Others 
18.6%
Revenue
=2,534.2  billion 
Global Expansion 
Total payout ratio 272.8 %
Capital Efficiency Growth Shareholder Returns 
ROE 1.4 % ROIC 0.8 % ROA 4.4 %
Number of employees (consolidated) 55,176Overseas sales ratio 93.9 % Ratio of overseas production Over 80 %
CAGR -1.6 %
Revenue 
¥2,534.2  billion
Operating Profit 
¥126.4  billion 
Revenue 
Operating Profit 


[Page 7]
Corporate Mission
Taking on the renewed 
challenge of achieving 
net sales of =2 trillion 
while promoting
new businesses 
Strengthen the earning power of 
our core businesses,
invest in new and growing businesses
that contribute to the creation
of a sustainable world, 
and accelerate digital initiatives and
co-creation to boost our growth potential. 
Adapting to
the COVID-19
pandemic 
Implementing
portfolio
management Reinforcing
the competitiveness
of core businesses 
Roadmap toward Our Long-Term Vision for 2030 
Generating
technologies
that expand human
possibilities 
2025–2027
Medium-Term Management Plan
2028-2030
Roadmap
Guided by its Corporate Mission to be a              Creating Company, in 2018 Yamaha Motor formulated its 
Long-Term Vision for 2030—ART for Human Possibilities: Let’s strive for greater happiness—and has 
been advancing a series of medium-term management plans since 2019 toward achieving this vision. 
       Over the past six years, covering the period before and after the COVID-19 pandemic, the business 
environment experienced significant change. We will continue adapting to the various changes in our 
operating environment, including rising market volatility, accelerating digitalization, worsening impact 
from climate change, diversifying values, and increasing multipolarism along regional axes. As we do so, 
we will continue taking on challenges in the unique style of Yamaha Motor in order to achieve 
sustainable growth and enhance our corporate value. 
Kando 
2019–2021 
2022–2024
Previous Medium-Term 
Management Plan 
Creating Company Kando
Offering new excitement and a more fulfilling life
for people all over the world 
A dvancing Robotics
Leverage and evolve
intelligent technologies
and robotics as a foundation 
R ethinking Solution
Propose uniquely Yamaha solutions 
T ransforming Mobility
Promote innovations in mobility 
Long-Term Vision for 2030 
Reinforce competitiveness 
in value-added fields 
> Increase market share in the 
 motorcycle premium segment
> Expand lineup and increase 
 production capacity for large 
 outboard motors 
Enhance functions in
the growing U.S. market 
> Strengthen marketing capabilities 
 in the U.S. outdoor market 
> Accelerate the transfer of 
 manufacturing, development, 
 and other functions to the U.S.
Inorganic growth 
Sustainability foundations
Environmental
Plan
Human Capital
Management
Risk &
Compliance
Management
Continuously
generate returns
that exceed
the cost of capital 
14 % rangeROE
8 % rangeROIC
9 % rangeROA
KPIs for 2027 
42 %
Share of Motorcycle
Premium Segment
32 %
Large Outboard
Motors Sales Ratio
14 %
ROS in Core Businesses
1 .3  times
previous plan
Capital Expenditure
¥300  billion
M&A Funding Limit
Raise the competitiveness of our core businesses, 
acquire new technologies that expand human possibilities, 
and take on uniquely Yamaha Motor challenges to create 
a world where people live in happiness and coexist 
in harmony with the environment.
Growth Strategies
Reinforcement of
Management Foundations
Earning power of
core businesses
Expansion of new and
growth businesses
Sustainability
+


[Page 8]
07
From the President
“We will transform our 
organization and corporate 
culture to become a strong, 
robust company that adapts 
quickly to change”
Motofumi Shitara
President, Chief Executive Officer 
and Representative Director
Upon assuming the presidency of Yamaha Motor a year ago, the 
vision I shared was for us to be a strong, robust company that 
adapts quickly to change. I see this past year as one in which we 
made progress in laying the groundwork for such a transformation—
from changing our organization and culture to structural reforms 
for our businesses—and began implementing the required reforms.
 However, the current situation has deviated significantly 
from the assumptions we had when formulating Medium-Term 
Management Plan (2025–2027),  particularly with regard to our 
U.S. operations. As such, the business environment remains 
challenging. Given this state of affairs, simply building on our 
existing methods and systems will not be enough. We must 
face reality head on by undertaking a sweeping review of our 
organizational framework, corporate culture, and business 
Looking Back on a Year of Reforms
Implementing Reforms to Our Organization, Corporate 
Culture, and Businesses to Become a Strong, Robust 
Company That Adapts Quickly to Change

[Page 9]
08
From the President
structure and move forward with reforms. We have moved from 
the preparation phase to the implementation phase, but I think 
it will take a little more time for results to appear. Although 
management conditions remain highly uncertain in fiscal 2026, 
we will steadily conduct reforms to become a strong, robust 
company that adapts quickly to change.
We have been reviewing our organizational framework since last 
year, examining possible configurations that would facilitate 
achieving our goals, while making preparations to implement 
them. We began by reviewing the composition of the Board of 
Directors, adopting a structure under which three directors have 
been put in charge of leading our manufacturing/procurement, 
technology, and marketing operations, respectively. Furthermore, 
in addition to the existing Technology Management Committee, 
we also established a Manufacturing & Procurement Management 
Committee and a Marketing Management Committee. Under 
this new arrangement, the directors responsible for each of 
these management committees participate in all three committees. 
Strengthening coordination among the committees in this way 
will facilitate the next measures to be taken from a Companywide 
perspective.
 What we are trying to do is not something gimmicky or 
unconventional, but rather something quite basic. For example, if 
sales fall short of the initial plan due to changes in the market 
environment, in the past, because of our siloed approach by 
function, it was difficult for employees to take ownership of the 
problem as a Companywide issue. From now on, while achieving 
planned unit sales will remain essential, we will shift to an 
organization in which we can thoroughly investigate the causes 
when targets are missed, and our marketing, manufacturing, and 
technology departments work together to come up with 
measures for ensuring those targets are reached. Rather than 
jumping ahead to talk about the future, we must first face what 
is happening right now. We are recommitting ourselves to this 
approach.
 In addition, specialization by role has been increasing at 
companies everywhere in recent years. Conversely, this means 
that employees who can oversee the entire value chain have 
become rare. I also recognize the critical need to develop 
management talent capable of facilitating problem-solving 
across organizational boundaries.
 Among the three functions mentioned above, marketing in 
particular requires the most extensive reforms. We need to 
move away from traditional product-oriented ideas, and more 
clearly link our sales strategies with market needs. To do so, we 
must accurately grasp changes in our markets and customers 
and spell out how we plan to make sales. Given his knowledge 
and experience in reading markets and managing high-profit 
operations through the Marine Products business, we therefore 
selected Toshiaki Ibata to be the director responsible for 
marketing. I expect to see a new kind of chemistry emerge from 
bringing that perspective to our other businesses. While we are 
currently focused on making organizational reforms based on 
different roles, I am aware that making changes at the regional 
level will be a challenge to address next year and beyond.
To become a strong, robust company that adapts quickly to 
change, in addition to revising our organizational framework,  
we must transform mindsets held by management as well as by 
frontline employees. The bigger a company grows, the easier it 
is for an atmosphere to take hold in which people protect their 
own domains and become hesitant to venture into neighboring 
ones. However, to truly strengthen a company, every employee 
on the frontlines must view matters as companywide issues and 
be able to freely discuss what needs to be done with others.  
To that end, we launched a corporate culture reform project in 
March 2026, with 24 participants selected from among all our 
operations, ranging from junior employees to middle management. 
Through this project, we hope to foster perspectives that galvanize 
the entire Company’s focus—including those in the field as well 
as on the front lines—and to cultivate among them the ability to 
proactively offer suggestions. This is also sure to contribute to 
the development of future management talent.
Management must always make decisions based on quantitative 
analyses of business performance and relevant KPIs. But at the 
same time, to live up to our corporate mission to be a Kando 
Creating Company, we also need to incorporate into our 
management the sensitivity that allows us to grasp the latent 
expectations of markets and customers, as well as the Kando that 
motivates each of our employees in their work. We intend to 
develop people capable of both, and to do so we must define more 
clearly what it means to “create Kando” so that it does not become 
just an empty phrase.  It is important that every employee seriously 
Launch of a New Organizational Framework
A Framework with Interconnected Functions, 
Leading to Next Steps Companywide
A Culture with a Companywide Awareness of Issues 
and the Ability to Make Bottom-Up Proposals
Bolstering Our Initiatives as a Kando Creating 
Company to Realize Our Long-Term Vision
Understanding Our Roots through Experience: 
The First Step in Being a Kando Creating Company
Transforming into a Strong, Robust Company 
That Adapts Quickly to Change
Pursuing Value
for Customers
(Marketing Management Committee)
Achievement of
Unit Sales TargetsKeeping Pace with Demand
and Enhancing Cost Efficiency
(Manufacturing & Procurement
Management Committee)
Delivering
Competitive Value
(Technology Management Committee)

[Page 10]
reflects on what creating Kando means to them personally. In that 
respect, I know that we are only just beginning this journey.
 To help realize our Long-Term Vision for 2030—ART for 
Human Possibilities: Let’s strive for greater happiness, we have 
been running a Companywide project called “Next Kando 
Actions” since before I became President. This initiative is aimed 
at learning from the challenges our predecessors took on and 
overcame in order to reaffirm what constitutes Yamaha Motor 
DNA. At the same time, these actions enhance each employee’s 
sense of belonging and unity, inspiring the motivation to tackle 
their work each day. As part of this initiative, from 2025 we have 
all new employees come watch the Suzuka 8 Hours.1
 Yamaha Motor has been racing since its founding in 1955, 
starting with the 3rd Mt. Fuji Ascent Race.2 When the Company 
still had few employees, those involved with the racing effort 
were never far from everyone else, sharing in the joys and 
frustrations of competition. Today, we compete in MotoGP,3 the 
Suzuka 8 Hours, trials, and other championships—racing 
continues to run in the blood of Yamaha Motor. However, with 
the over 55,000 employees we have now, many spend their 
careers without ever getting the chance to experience 
motorsports. Anyone who works at Yamaha Motor should begin 
their career by getting to know the soul of the Company. With 
this in mind, we organized this race-viewing event to help new 
employees understand the core of Yamaha Motor not just through 
words, but through the experience itself. Under the scorching 
sun, employees all wore the same Yamaha Motor uniform and 
shared the experience of watching the machines, riders, and 
team members push themselves to the limit for eight hours. 
The Kando and the unique spirit of Yamaha Motor that they felt 
firsthand became a personal experience they could share with 
family and friends. I believe that communicating Kando in this 
way connects to branding that is true to who we are as Yamaha 
Motor. It is crucial that every employee embraces the Kando 
Creating Company mission as something with meaning for them 
personally through experiences like these.
 Furthermore, in 2025 we distributed 70 shares of Yamaha 
Motor stock to each member of the employee shareholding 
association. This move commemorating the 70th anniversary of 
our founding was aimed at raising employee awareness of 
management and encouraging a sense of ownership with regard 
to the Company’s operations. As a result of this measure, the 
participation rate in the employee shareholding association has 
increased by about 30 percentage points. 
In fiscal 2025, revenue decreased 1.6% year on year to ¥2,534.2 
billion and operating profit decreased 30.4% to ¥126.4 billion.  
A combination of higher costs and one-time factors put 
pressure on profits, including the impact of U.S. tariffs, rising 
procurement costs, increased R&D and personnel expenses, 
and an impairment loss in the OLV business.
 As for the business environment, our profit structure has 
changed significantly from the assumptions underlying the 
current Medium-Term Management Plan, primarily due to tariffs 
and a market slump affecting our U.S. business. We foresee an 
even greater impact from tariffs in 2026 than there was in 
2025. Furthermore, demand remains weak due to economic 
uncertainty, and sales in the U.S. market have fallen short of 
our original projections. In response, we began cost structure 
reforms across all our businesses in fiscal 2025. In particular, 
we are working to improve the profitability at our U.S. bases, 
which we expect to largely offset the effects of tariffs. Over the 
medium to long term, we will establish a profit structure that is 
not dependent on top-line growth. For fiscal 2026, we plan to 
increase revenue and all levels of profit significantly year on 
year through pricing strategies and cost structure reforms, in 
addition to increased sales in our core businesses.
 We have also made a downward revision to the fiscal 2025 
year-end dividend. Although we secured a certain level of profit, 
this was boosted by gain on the sale of land in Taiwan, and the 
short-term cash flow outlook for fiscal 2026 was tight due to 
capital restructuring measures, including a capital injection for 
a U.S. subsidiary. We take the harsh reaction from the stock 
market seriously and there is a greater sense of urgency 
throughout the Company as well. We are conducting structural 
reforms toward staging a V-shaped recovery in fiscal 2026, and to 
that end, we will further tighten internal controls and accelerate 
various initiatives.
 We will communicate the progress of these and other initiatives 
in detail to shareholders and investors through close dialogue.
We have been making steady progress in raising the competitiveness 
of our core businesses, which is one of the basic policies of the 
current Medium-Term Management Plan. In the Marine 
Products business, we are conducting structural reforms prior 
to the launch of next-generation models. In the Motorcycles 
business,  we will enhance technological features while 
assessing our strengths and weaknesses in each region, 
centering on our premium model segment strategy. Meanwhile, 
for our strategic businesses, we are currently reassessing how 
to allocate resources and how to proceed thereafter.
 Among our core businesses, the Marine Products business 
has been our principal earner in the U.S., but it is currently 
struggling. Besides factoring in the effects of tariffs, I feel we 
need to implement initiatives that address the changes afoot in 
the competitive environment. As our competitors aggressively 
invested in their product lines and vertical integration, we 
maintained a passive stance and fell behind in product 
investment. I am aware that as a result, competition has 
intensified in areas where we have conventionally held 
advantages, and our competitive edge has gradually dulled. We 
are currently developing next-generation models with plans to 
progressively introduce a series of new products starting in 
2027. Per-unit profitability in the Marine Products business is 
exceptionally high, and we intend to use this as the starting point 
for turning the business around. In the meantime, we will lower 
the break-even point through structural reforms while reinforcing 
the business structure itself.
 The Motorcycles business itself remains stable overall, and we 
1. Suzuka 8 Hours: Japan’s premier motorcycle endurance road race held since 1978.
2. Mt. Fuji Ascent Race: Officially, the “Mount Fuji Ascent Light Motorcycle Race,” was held four times between 1953 and 1956 and was the largest motorcycle race in Japan at the time. Yamaha Motor began participating from the 3rd race and won it two years in a row.
3. MotoGP: The premier world championship of motorcycle road racing that began in 1949. As the pinnacle of two-wheeled motorsport, the fastest riders and most advanced bikes compete.
09
From the President
Current Trends in Business Performance and Evaluation
Steady Progress Toward Transformation Despite 
Challenging Conditions
Trends in Each Business
Reinforcing Core Businesses and Reassessing 
Strategic Businesses

[Page 11]
From the President
plan to continue pursuing our premium model segment strategy in 
each region. I realize that doing so will require us to incorporate 
even more technologies that set our products apart as premium 
offerings, and specifically, this entails tailoring those elements 
to what each market is looking for. We are strategically allocating 
management resources toward this goal and adopting a medium- 
to long-term perspective for when these initiatives are likely to 
generate results. Until then, as with the Marine Products business, 
we will use the recent organizational restructuring to implement 
cost structure reforms. We anticipate results to first materialize 
in our priority markets of Indonesia, India, and Brazil.
 Among our strategic businesses, the Robotics business is 
starting to show signs of a turn to profitability following a 
streamlining of its cost structure. However, further growth will 
require investments in generative AI applications and 
semiconductor back-end processing. Additionally, we must 
carefully determine how much capital to invest in expanding 
the Robotics business from the perspective of total optimization. 
We will examine the optimal allocation of resources, including 
consideration of how much we should handle in-house.
 In the Smart Power Vehicle (SPV) business, we acquired the e-Kit 
subsidiary of German automotive parts manufacturer Brose in 
2025, but post-merger integration is taking longer than anticipated. 
Our strategy for overseas markets of rolling out eBike drive units 
rather than complete build-up eBikes will remain unchanged. By 
establishing a development base in Europe—the largest market for 
this product category—and leveraging the network we have 
acquired from Brose, we aim to strengthen our market presence 
in the region.
 In the Outdoor Land Vehicle (OLV) business, although the 
all-terrain vehicle (ATV) segment is performing steadily, the 
recreational off-highway vehicle (ROV) segment requires 
significant shoring up. Although this is a segment that has 
pursued excitement in the unique style of Yamaha Motor, we 
are considering a strategy of selection and concentration, 
including reviewing the current direction of development 
efforts. We plan to announce related measures at the earnings 
presentation for the second quarter of fiscal 2026.
We are considering a wide range of options for achieving carbon 
neutrality by 2050, including the use of sustainable fuels.
However, as I have mentioned elsewhere, I see our multi-
pathway approach only as a waypoint to our final destination of 
electric vehicles (EVs).
 Once the challenges around charging infrastructure, maximum 
range, product pricing, and government subsidies are settled, the 
path toward EV adoption will become clearer. Over the short to 
medium term, however, the optimal solution differs depending 
on the region and the timing. To adapt to these conditions, it is 
crucial that we be ready to choose the best option in each case.
 For motorcycle power units, along with the issue of selecting 
the optimal battery type, different cell configurations can 
dramatically increase the flexibility of power output characteristics. 
This makes it essential to identify common technical requirements 
for handling such units. Moreover, when selecting partners, it 
will be key to have a clear idea of how much to keep in-house 
and what should be done with external collaborators. We have 
been involved in the EV sector in India for some time, and 
announced two electric scooter models for the Indian market in 
2025. We will continue looking ahead as we use our time 
efficiently to build technological advantages.
Over the past year, I have felt shareholders’ and investors’ high 
level of interest in Yamaha Motor firsthand.
 I fully understand the importance of management that is 
mindful of the cost of capital and the stock price. I therefore 
believe in the importance of transparently communicating our 
current activities to the stock market so that evaluations are 
properly reflected in our share price.
 Yamaha Motor is in the middle of a major transformation. While 
conditions remain challenging for generating results, we are 
reviewing our organizational framework, corporate culture, and 
business structure as we steadily push forward initiatives in order 
to be a strong, robust company that adapts quickly to change.
 These moves are not intended to improve business performance 
for just a single year; they are designed to transform us into  
a company capable of withstanding future changes in our 
operating environment. I hope shareholders and investors will 
come to understand our thought processes and approaches 
through this year’s integrated report, and get a clearer picture 
of our potential for medium- to long-term growth. We will 
continue to value dialogue with shareholders, investors, and all 
other stakeholders as we work to enhance our corporate value.
Our Multi-Pathway Approach
Flexibly Prioritizing Resource Allocation Based on 
Individual Characteristics
To Our Shareholders and Investors
Driving Transformation with Determination to 
Achieve Medium- to Long-Term Growth
10

[Page 12]
Financial Capital 
Equity  ¥1,132.2 billion
Interest-bearing liabilities
  ¥1,044.3 billion
Free cash flow  ¥52.5 billion
Human Capital 
Unique style of Yamaha: 
Innovation, Excitement, 
Confidence, Emotion, and Ties 
A corporate culture of free 
and open communication 
Acting with Speed; Spirit 
of Challenge; Persistence 
Intellectual 
Capital 
Global development bases 
Four core competencies 
Manufactured 
Capital 
Global production scheme 
Theoretical-value-based production, 
Yamaha Motor Craftsmanship 
Diverse businesses 
Social and 
Relationship 
Capital 
Global supplier, sales, 
and service networks 
Natural Capital 
Energy 
Raw materials 
Water resources 
Technology Manufacturing &
Procurement Marketing
Branding, Design, IP Management
Technology Vision: 
Pursuing fun and 
solving societal 
issues to create 
a future for all 
Expanding human 
potential by combining 
our core competencies 
with new core 
competencies and 
human research 
Building a digital 
technology platform 
for creating new value 
Sites and production 
processes that ensure 
safety and reliability 
Creating new value under 
the Value Innovation 
Factory concept 
Co-creation with our global 
supplier network 
Creating lifetime 
customers 
Deploying real and 
digital experiences 
Expanding customer 
reward programs 
Strengthening coordination 
with global networks 
Sales and services in over 
180 countries and regions 
Creating new demand 
Sustainability Foundations
Materiality Issues
Environmental Plan 2050 
Human Capital Management 
Risk and Compliance Management 
New value creation
Innovation
Net zero emissions
by 2050
Carbon Neutrality
Zero fatal accidents
involving Yamaha Motor
products by 2050
Safety and Reliability
Land Mobility
Motorcycles, electrically power-assisted
bicycles, e-Kits, and others
Marine Products
Outboard motors, boats, personal 
watercraft, and others
Outdoor Land Vehicle
ATVs, ROVs, golf cars, and others
Robotics
Surface mounters, semiconductor
post-processing equipment, and others
Financial Services
Sales financing and leasing for
Yamaha Motor products
New Businesses
Other Businesses
Medium-Term
Management Plan
2025–2027
Offering new excitement and
a more fulfilling life for
people all over the world
Financial Targets
Revenue
  Over ¥3.1 trillion
 (2027)
CAGR*  Over 7%
ROE  14% range
 (3-year average)
Fun in Mobility
• Exciting mobility experiences 
• Pursuit of safety and reliability 
Fulfilling Life
• Resolving societal issues 
• Improving quality of life
Harmony with the Earth
Outputs OutcomesInputs Business
• Contributing to decarbonization 
and a circular economy 
• Conserving ecosystems
Corporate
Mission Long-Term Vision for 2030  Creating Company Kando
Jin-Ki Kanno 
 p. 12
p. 32
p. 24
p. 22
Sources of Our Competitiveness p. 13–
p. 44
p. 30
p. 62
* Average annual sales growth rate
Value Creation Story
11
Value Creation Story By expanding human possibilities and delivering products and services that create Kando, we strive to achieve sustainable growth 
while contributing to a better society and more fulfilling lives. In 2026, we established an organizational structure of three 
management committees—Technology, Manufacturing & Procurement, and Marketing—each chaired by an internal director.  
By strengthening collaboration between these committees, we will enhance the quality and speed of Companywide decision-making 
and further improve business execution capabilities. 

[Page 13]
12
Capital Input
Type of Capital Characteristics (Strengths) Challenges to Overcome Strategies and Steps for Enhancing Capital Goals and Indicators 
Financial 
Capital 
•  Sound financial foundations 
•  Ability to generate stable cash flow 
•  Maintaining stable ROE at a high level 
•  Conducting management where all businesses 
exceed the hurdle rate 
•  Strengthen the earning power of core 
businesses 
•  Explore opportunities for expanding capital 
investment and M&As for business growth 
2027
•  Revenue:  
Over ¥3.1 trillion
•  Operating profit margin: 
Over 9%
2025–2027 Average
•  ROE: 14% range 
•  ROIC:  8% range 
•  ROA:  9% range 
Human 
Capital 
•  Human resources who boldly take on  
ambitious goals 
•  Human resources who embody the unique style 
of Yamaha Motor: Innovation, Excitement, 
Confidence, Emotion, and Ties 
2025
•  Number of employees (consolidated): 55,176 
•  Local hiring for core positions outside Japan: 
56.4% 
•  Improving employee engagement 
•  Developing the next generation of 
management talent globally 
•  Increasing the ratio of women managers 
•  Talent management 
•  Monozukuri specialist development 
•  Diversity, Equity, Inclusion 
•  Next Kando Actions
2027
•  Positive engagement score of 80% or higher 
•  Timely and appropriate promotion of capable 
talent 
•  Global ratio of women managers: 13% 
Intellectual 
Capital 
•  Primary development bases: 21 
•  Global development bases that rapidly reflect 
local needs in products 
•  Jin-Ki Kanno, our unique development 
philosophy 
•  Four core competencies  and  
human research 
•  Creation, protection, and utilization of 
intellectual property in the unique style of 
Yamaha Motor 
R&D 
•  Acquiring new core competencies 
IP 
•  Mechanisms to drive innovation 
R&D 
•  Strengthen R&D for new core competencies 
•  Total R&D expenses during the Medium-Term 
Management Plan of at least ¥490.0 billion 
IP 
•  Use intellectual property analysis to assess 
where our technologies are at the forefront and 
areas where we can expand the markets we serve 
•  Expand the invention bonus system 
•  Achieve the Technology Vision 
•  Ensure value creation and competitive 
advantages based on business strategies for 
each country and region 
Manufactured 
Capital 
•  Ratio of overseas production: Over 80% 
•  Theoretical-value-based production 
•  Yamaha Motor Craftsmanship 
•  Strengthening our stable foundation in terms 
of number of units, people, equipment,  
and quality 
•  Improving both productivity and engagement 
•  Globally unifying and standardizing systems 
and rules 
•  Promote Value Innovation Factory activities 
•  Flexibly realize the Global One Factory concept,  
with factories in each country complementing 
each other’s capabilities
Social and 
Relationship 
Capital 
•  Overseas sales ratio: 90% or higher 
•  Operations in over 180 countries and regions 
•  Ranked 27th in Best Japan Brands 2026 
Customers
•  Further improving the value in customer 
experiences
Suppliers
•  Further strengthening the management 
foundations of suppliers 
•  Promoting stronger, more sophisticated efforts 
by suppliers to respect human rights 
Customers 
•  Ramp up combined real and digital experiences 
Suppliers
•  Improve profitability, growth, and robustness 
through co-creation 
•  Communicate and promote understanding of 
respect for human rights 
•  Conduct due diligence for human rights and 
strengthen responses based on the results 
Customers (2027) 
•  Yamaha Motor ID: 12.8 million registrants 
•  Customer reward programs:  
5 countries/regions 
Suppliers 
•  Minimize human rights risks 
Natural 
Capital 
•  Renewable energy facilities introduced in  
14 countries and regions 
•  Eight electric motorcycle models launched 
•  Multi-pathway initiatives 
Scope 1 and 2
•  Reducing CO2 emissions at worksites 
Scope 3
•  Commercializing electric models 
Scope 1 and 2
•  Minimize energy consumption through the 
theoretical-value-based energy approach 
•  Expand use of renewable energy 
Scope 3
•  Develop and sell electric models, energy-saving 
models, and alternative fuel-compatible models 
Scope 1 and 2 
•  74% reduction by 2027 (per unit of sales 
revenue; compared with 2010) 
•  Ratio of electricity generated from renewable 
energy sources: 15% 
•  Achieve carbon neutrality by 2035 
Scope 3 
•  Achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 
Use of Sustainable Raw Materials 
•  18% by 2027 
•  100% by 2050 

[Page 14]
13
Sources of Our Competitiveness 
We believe that by further raising the value of the Yamaha Motor 
brand and highlighting its worth, we can achieve our Corporate 
Mission to be a Kando Creating Company and strive for greater 
happiness in accordance with our Long-Term Vision for 2030. 
Furthermore, through branding that amplifies Yamaha Motor’s 
unique creativity and fosters deeper connections with customers, 
we strengthen our competitiveness and enhance corporate value. 
Strengths 
and 
Characteristics
•  A global business footprint spanning more than 180 countries and regions 
•  Strong customer engagement through products, motorsports, and 
experiences 
•  The creation of unique value through the integration of design, technology, 
and experiences 
Challenges
•  Strengthening the consistency of brand communications and activities 
across the global organization 
•  Bolstering strategic communications 
Branding
Our brand is one of our most important assets and a key driver of sustainable corporate value. 
Through our motorcycles and other products, we have inspired customers around the world with 
moments that move both mind and body—moments born from the active pursuit of challenges—
and the special form of excitement and satisfaction we call Kando that arises from those 
experiences. As a brand that encourages people to enjoy life, we strive to build lasting 
relationships with stakeholders through the ongoing accumulation of such Kando experiences. 
 To strengthen the consistency of our branding activities as our businesses and customer 
touchpoints continue to diversify globally, in 2026 we established the Brand Section, which 
reports directly to the President. By establishing an integrated framework for corporate and 
branding activities, we are optimizing previously fragmented efforts while strengthening 
stakeholder communications. The Brand Section is responsible for the centralized management 
Promoting Corporate Branding—Building Employee Understanding of the Brand and Encouraging Action
of brand assets, communications with internal and external stakeholders, and the creation of 
brand experiences, driving initiatives that combine global consistency with speed of execution. 
Through communications and the delivery of brand experiences, we also seek to foster greater 
affinity for and attachment to Yamaha Motor and deepen our relationships with stakeholders. 
 Furthermore, under the leadership of the Brand Section, we will further advance the 
Companywide Next Kando Actions project, which began in 2024. This project aims to boost 
employees’ understanding of the values that have guided Yamaha Motor since its founding and 
encourage actions that lead to new forms of Kando. Through initiatives toward developing a 
consistent corporate brand centered on this project, in a way that reaches a broad range of 
internal and external stakeholders, we seek to enhance corporate value through the sharing of 
Kando experiences and by fostering greater affinity for the Company. 
Internal  External 
Next Kando Actions
Experiential opportunities 
for employees 
Internal communications 
and brand-related training 
Community
contributions 
Building brand
touchpoints 
Brand communications 
through media 
Motorsports activities and 
sports sponsorships 

[Page 15]
14
Sources of Our Competitiveness 
Guided by our unique development philosophy of Jin-Ki Kanno, Yamaha Motor’s 
design activities aim to create the special form of excitement and satisfaction we 
call Kando—experiences that remain in people’s memories for a lifetime. Through 
close cooperation between our business, technology, and development teams, we 
advance forward-looking initiatives that bring research-driven possibilities to life 
through prototypes. At the same time, we develop new design paradigms that 
inform our medium- to long-term design strategies. By carrying out these activities 
in collaboration with our design centers around the world, we aim to create new 
value that addresses the latent needs of customers in each market. 
Strengths 
and 
Characteristics
•  A consistent design philosophy passed down since the 
Company’s founding 
•  An advanced development process closely integrated 
with business and product development 
•  A global design network spanning six locations worldwide 
Challenges
•  Strengthening brand management through design across 
all business operations 
•  Developing design roadmaps tailored to the 
characteristics of each market 
•  Expanding advanced design capabilities to showcase 
emerging technologies
Design 
As part of our product design strategy, we created the EV 
series prototyping project to bring new EV technologies to life 
through design. Drawing on the performance characteristics 
of three distinct EV types, as well as Yamaha Motor’s design 
track record, we developed a new design logic that expresses 
a distinct vision for the future of mobility. 
 The headlight design, which is crucial in shaping the 
overall impression of the model, combines a slender, refined 
profile accented by a cyan color scheme. This design is 
common to all three EV types. Together, these elements 
convey a consistent and forward-looking aesthetic with the 
potential to establish a new iconic status. 
The color design of Yamaha Motor’s YZF-R3 and YZF-R25 
motorcycles received the Grand Prix at the Auto Color 
Awards 2025, presented by the Japan Fashion Color 
Association (JAFCA) in recognition of its outstanding color 
design in mobility. This is only the second time a motorcycle 
has received the award’s highest honor, with Yamaha Motor 
winning on both occasions. 
 The selected Matte Pearl White model features a 
combination of white and blue pearlescent pigments, a rare 
and ambitious application for a mass-production model. 
Its appearance changes dramatically depending on the angle 
of light and time of day, thereby embodying the Jin-Ki Kanno 
philosophy by appealing directly to human sensibilities. 
Yamaha PAS Life, Yamaha Motor’s online community 
platform, received the Good Design Award 2025 presented 
by the Japan Institute of Design Promotion. This platform 
was created to foster new relationships between Yamaha 
Motor and everyone involved with PAS—our series of 
electrically power-assisted bicycles. 
 By expanding the relationship between the Company and 
its customers beyond products to embrace lifestyles and 
ways of living, the platform creates a cycle in which 
participants connect, learn, and co-create beyond traditional 
boundaries or roles. Through these efforts, it contributes to 
the realization of a safe, secure, enjoyable, and sustainable 
mobility society. 
Creating Base Models for the Next  
Stage of Yamaha Motor Design 
Auto Color Awards 2025 Grand Prix Yamaha PAS Life Online Community 


[Page 16]
(%)
8
6
4
2
0
Number of New Inventors / Share of
Important Patents (Motorcycles)
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500
(%)
5
4
3
2
0
1
Number of New Inventors / Share of
Important Patents (Marine Products)
0 100 200 300 400 500
Overseas
82.5 %
Japan
17.5 %
IP*
by Region
15
Sources of Our Competitiveness 
In January 2025, we established the Global Risk, 
Compliance, Legal and IP Center and the IP Strategy 
Division to better promote intellectual property strategies 
on a global basis and to create, protect, and utilize 
intellectual property rights in the unique style of Yamaha 
Motor. Through these efforts, we will use our intellectual 
property to raise corporate and brand value and fulfill 
our Corporate Mission to be a Kando Creating Company.
Strengths 
and 
Characteristics
•  Use of IP landscapes to support management decision-making and strategy formulation 
•  IP mixes that combine patents, design rights, trademarks, and other forms of 
intellectual property in line with business strategies 
•  IP KPIs (i.e., our share of important patents) for securing competitive advantages in 
the Motorcycles and Marine Products businesses 
•  Leveraging our IP portfolio globally 
Challenges
•  Effectively utilizing invention bonuses to drive sustainable innovation 
•  Stimulating the generation of inventions in new core competency areas 
•  Strengthening IP governance to accelerate the globalization of development
IP Activity Policy and Companywide Management Framework
Four Pillars of Intellectual Property Activities 
1   Move one step ahead of conventional intellectual property activities that consist primarily of 
intellectual property creation linked to product and technology development in existing businesses 
2   Pursue intellectual property activities that preempt technological developments and the expansion 
of business areas by looking beyond our existing technologies and markets 
3   Indicate advanced fields that target further preemption and business area expansion through 
analysis of the intellectual property landscape 
4   Contribute to management decisions and strategy formulation from the perspectives of intellectual 
property analysis and market and technological growth analysis
Under the banner of “IP for Business,” i.e., IP activities that support business competitiveness, 
our IP departments are proactively involved in upstream business activities through the 
implementation of the IP activity policy described above. In addition, we promote the strategic 
use of “IP mixes” that combine patents, design rights, trademarks, and other forms of 
intellectual property in alignment with our business strategies. For example, for products 
distinguished by Yamaha Motor’s signature design, we actively pursue not only design rights 
covering their appearance but also patent rights that protect the technical aspects underlying 
that appearance. By protecting our products and services from multiple intellectual property 
perspectives, we strengthen the foundations of our business. 
 We have established an IP framework that supports global development in key markets, and 
as of the end of 2025, we held 
21,992 intellectual property 
rights acquired across 197 
countries/regions. We also work 
closely with intellectual 
property authorities and other 
relevant organizations around 
the world to take decisive action 
to protect our intellectual 
property (467 cases handled 
globally in 2025). Through 
these efforts, we help create 
value and secure competitive 
advantages in each country and 
region, based on our business 
strategies.
Key Measures in the Medium-Term Management Plan 
Under the Medium-Term Management Plan, we are promoting key initiatives based on an 
integrated cycle of (1) IP analysis, (2) KPI evaluation, and (3) Invention incentives. We (1) Use IP 
analysis to identify fields we can pioneer with forward-looking technologies or fields primed for 
growth in specific markets, then (2) Strategically set and evaluate IP KPIs in those fields, and (3) 
Drive technological development through the invention bonus system. Through this cycle, we 
will take the lead in generating inventions that create new value. In our IP KPIs, we emphasize 
market impact, such as by using the average annual number of citations received by each 
invention. In addition, we expanded our invention incentive program in 2025 to provide 
financial incentives for selected inventions with high KPI scores, regardless of whether they 
had been incorporated into products. The same KPIs also serve as the selection criteria when 
identifying key patents, as described below. 
IP KPI Evaluation in Two Core Businesses:  
Share of Important Patents and Number of New Inventors 
As shown below, the Motorcycles and Marine Products businesses—core businesses in our 
portfolio—rank highly in both share of important patents and the number of new inventors, 
securing a significant advantage in patent creation efficiency over competitors. 
 p. 46  Leveraging Intellectual Property Analysis
IP Strategy Promotion Structure 
Board of Directors
Management Committee
Technology Management Committee
Technology
Committee
Business and
development
divisions
IP Strategy
Division
Chief General Manager
of Global Risk,
Compliance, Legal
and IP Center
(Executive Officer)
Global Risk, Compliance,
Legal and IP Center
IP strategy reporting and review
IP perspective
RecommendationsRecommendations
ConsultationsConsultations
Companywide IP strategy
formulation and IP analysis
Companywide IP strategy
formulation and IP analysis
Divisional IP strategy 
formulation and promotion
of IP activities
Divisional IP strategy 
formulation and promotion
of IP activities
Intellectual
Property
IP Portfolio 
Shading indicates trends from published data for 2025. 
Notes: 1.  Number of new inventors: Cumulative total of new inventors who filed applications since 2014. 
 2.  Share of important patents: Percentage of patents in the top 5% of the annual average number of citations in a specific population. 
 3.  The dotted line indicates the average of competitors in terms of efficiency in generating important patents. 
 4.  Indices are based on data from Establishment of KPIs, etc. for Intellectual Property in Accordance with the Revision of the Corporate 
Governance Code (Interim Report) (IFI Working Paper; 2022) and other materials. 
*  Number of patents, utility models, design 
rights, and trademarks held 

[Page 17]
Powertrains Manufacturing Electronic
Control
Chassis
and
Hulls
Existing 
core 
competencies
Fundamental 
research 
New core 
competencies 
Envisioned 
future 
Technology 
Vision 
Pursuing Fun and Solving Societal Issues to
Create a Future for All
Energy
Management
Software
Services
Human Research
Intelligent
Systems
Unlocking
people’s
potential
Safety,
sustainability,
and enjoyment
Unrestricted
and diverse mobility
experiences
16
Sources of Our Competitiveness 
• Core Competency Initiatives 
We continue to advance our core 
technologies, in powertrains, 
chassis and hulls, electronic 
control, as well as manufacturing 
technologies, which we have 
cultivated over many years 
through our core businesses. 
By further refining these core 
technologies to ensure they 
remain a source of future 
earning power and combining 
them with new core 
technologies, we continue to 
create corporate value.
• Acquiring New Core Competencies 
In the intelligent systems domain, we are incorporating research outcomes into product 
development through autonomous control and AI applications in real-world operating 
environments, building the implementation capabilities needed to strengthen our future 
competitiveness. 
 In the energy management domain, we are expanding our technological options for 
electrification and decarbonization while further advancing technologies that enable energy to 
be used with maximum efficiency in the most appropriate way. 
 In the software services domain, we are developing innovative software services that combine 
attractive products with distinctive software services. This approach enhances the value of our 
products and services, deepens customer experiences, and strengthens business competitiveness. 
 Human research is the foundation for value creation in these three new core competencies. 
This research focuses on understanding people and exploring human potential. We seek to 
develop technologies that work in harmony with our emotions and sensibilities, and gain insights 
that contribute to the creation of Kando. 
MOTOROiD:Λ 
MOTOROiD:Λ is our mobility concept for  
a vehicle capable of autonomous operation 
using intelligent systems technologies 
powered by AI. Mobility with the ability to 
think independently and grow together with 
people has the potential for creating new 
relationships between people and machines. 
TRICERA proto 
TRICERA proto is a three-wheel, open-top 
electric autocycle that explores new ways to 
enjoy driving. We have applied a human 
research perspective in tuning its steering 
control system to maximize driver enjoyment, 
enabling drivers to feel more at one with the 
machine. 
Three Electric Motorcycle Models 
We are developing a series parallel 
hybrid electric vehicle (SPHEV),  
a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle 
(PHEV), and a large electric motorcycle 
through R&D that combines our core 
competencies with electrification 
technologies, proposing a balance 
between pursuing enjoyment and 
reducing environmental impact.
Guided by our Technology Vision—Pursuing fun and solving societal 
issues to create a future for all—we are further developing the core 
competencies we have cultivated over many years while strengthening 
three new core competencies: intelligent systems, energy management, 
and software services. By combining these competencies with “human 
research,” we acquire new technologies with the potential to contribute 
to our businesses. We then apply the resulting insights in products and 
services, thereby creating value that truly meets people’s needs. 
Strengths 
and 
Characteristics
•  New value creation from combining our existing core 
competencies 
•  Multi-pathway pursuits that include electrification and 
hydrogen power 
•  Jin-Ki Kanno development ideal that creates joy and 
exhilaration for users 
Challenges
•  Delivering value through the advancement of new core 
competencies 
•  Creating future value and differentiation through human 
research 
•  Creating new value through the integration of core 
competencies and advanced technologies 
Technology Vision and Companywide Technology Strategy 
Research and
Development 
Close-Up  Models Exhibited at the Japan Mobility Show 2025 

[Page 18]
Procurement Global
Executive Committee 
Procurement chiefs
at each base 
Core procurement members
for each project Global activities 
Reporting and approval 
Approval of 
policies and 
activities 
Further promotion of locally 
appointed general managers 
Development of global talent 
Headquarters Procurement Center + 
17 overseas bases 
Deployment 
of strategies 
and tactics 
Procurement Center Overseas base Overseas base 
Collaborations Collaborations 
Profitability
Strengthening existing businesses 
Advancing                         through 
a theoretical-value-based approach 
Reassessed competitiveness and promoted the adoption of a theoretical-value-based 
approach, resulting in stronger                        and cost innovation. 
Continued efforts to ensure stable procurement and strengthen resilience, 
including preparations against cyberattacks and geopolitical risks. 
Expanded matching opportunities with suppliers’ technologies and increased 
opportunities for collaboration from the upstream stages of development. 
Promoted fair trade, expanded carbon neutrality initiatives, and updated 
the Sustainability Guideline for Suppliers to ensure effective responses to legal 
and regulatory requirements as well as societal expectations. 
Growth Driving new value creation 
Pursuing more sophisticated co-creation 
Robustness
Promoting sustainable management 
Responding to laws, regulations, and 
societal expectations 
Status of Initiatives
Monozukuri Monozukuri
17
Sources of Our Competitiveness 
Procuring a diverse range of quality parts and materials with a 
global perspective is crucial for Yamaha Motor to continue delivering 
unique, high-performance, high-quality products that offer new 
excitement and a more fulfilling life for people all around the world. 
We proactively communicate with our suppliers in order to build 
stronger relationships of trust, and engage in Monozukuri with a 
spirit of co-creation that enhances the corporate value of all parties. 
Strengths 
and 
Characteristics
•  Co-creation based on relationships of trust with suppliers 
–  Monozukuri procurement using theoretical-value-based 
approaches 
–  Human resource development to support quality, delivery, and 
cost in the supply chain
Challenges
•  Enhancing corporate value for both Yamaha Motor and its suppliers, 
and strengthening cost competitiveness through co-creation 
•  Advancing sustainability throughout the supply chain 
Procurement 
We define uniquely Yamaha Motor co-creation as activities that 
not only raise our global competitiveness but also earn the 
respect and appreciation of society and enhance our corporate 
value as well as that of our suppliers. We will deepen co-
creation with suppliers to achieve mutual growth based on the 
three key areas of focus: Profitability, Growth, and Robustness. 
For Profitability, we pursue cost optimization based on a 
Yamaha Motor operates 18 procurement locations worldwide. 
Under a management structure comprising headquarters 
management and procurement leaders from each country/
region, headquarters policies and decisions are shared across 
all locations, strengthening cost reduction and stable 
procurement, and enhancing governance in terms of ESG 
issues and risk management. At the global level, we plan and 
implement key initiatives across locations, including optimal 
supplier selection, cost reduction, business continuity 
planning, quality, procurement of indirect materials, 
sustainability, and digital transformation. Through this 
process, we address common challenges across locations 
while promoting greater autonomy and self-sufficiency at 
Approach to Procurement Based on  
a Spirit of Co-Creation and Key Measures 
Procurement Promotion and 
Management Structure 
theoretical-value-based approach, develop technologies that 
offer attractive benefits, and work to strengthen stable 
procurement and resilience. For Growth, we deepen 
collaboration from the upstream stages of development to 
drive new value creation and expansion into new business 
fields. For Robustness, we place the highest priority on 
compliance, promote fair trade, and thoroughly address 
social issues, including carbon neutrality initiatives, with the 
aim of building sustainable relationships with suppliers. 
our overseas operations. This structure fosters close collaboration 
among procurement leaders and core members responsible 
for implementing specific activities, strengthens the deployment 
of headquarters policies, and enhances coordination across 
the organization. In terms of our human capital, we are 
promoting the appointment of local staff to general manager 
positions. We have also identified enhancing employee 
engagement within the procurement function as a key talent 
development priority.  
As such, we continue  
to develop globally  
capable procurement  
professionals  
by expanding  
opportunities for  
growth. 
We have been working continuously with suppliers on theoretical-
value-based activities for more than 10 years on a global basis. 
Theoretical-value-based activities are improvement initiatives 
based on the pursuit of essential functions, absolute-value 
thinking, and overall optimization from a holistic perspective. 
This way of thinking is also at the heart of Yamaha Motor’s 
Monozukuri. Today, the scope of these activities has expanded 
beyond manufacturing site improvements to encompass the 
entire business, including logistics, energy reduction, and 
back-office operations. We are also extending these efforts to 
encompass technical theoretical-value-based activities that 
focus on maximizing the theoretical value of equipment and 
manufacturing methods to achieve both higher productivity 
and higher quality. Through these activities, we improve 
efficiency and optimize costs across the entire supply chain, 
contributing to a stronger business foundation. In addition to 
actively promoting co-creation between suppliers and Yamaha 
Motor, we encourage co- 
creation among suppliers  
themselves, which links to  
strengthening overall  
competitiveness and  
creating sustainable value. 
Close-Up  Technical Theoretical-Value-Based Activities 
 Please visit our website for more information on our procurement policy. 


[Page 19]
18
Sources of Our Competitiveness 
Yamaha Motor is creating new value through the 
global rollout of its Value Innovation Factory (VIF) 
approach, which combines the concept of 
theoretical-value-based production with digital 
transformation technologies in manufacturing, and 
places people at the center of value creation. We 
will continue to practice Monozukuri that brings 
Kando to our customers through the creation of 
new value. 
Strengths 
and 
Characteristics
Sustainable delivery of Kando to customers worldwide through Monozukuri that 
enhances value across four axes. 
•  Human resource value: People who continue to create value through a theoretical-
value-based approach 
•  Societal value: Achieved carbon neutrality target a year ahead of schedule at factories 
•  Product value: Communicated appealing quality created by going the extra mile 
•  Connected value: Achieved seamless connections from the manufacturing site to 
customers 
Challenges
•  In Japan: Enhancing our production foundations for greater consistency rooted in 
stability of units produced, personnel, equipment, and quality 
•  International: Realizing the Global One Factory concept in which facilities worldwide 
flexibly supplement each other’s production capacity 
Our goal is to deliver the best possible product to inspire 
Kando in our customers. At our production sites, we pursue 
continuous improvement and transformation every day to 
achieve this goal. The shared philosophy underlying these 
efforts is theoretical-value-based production. 
 This approach defines an ideal state as the “theoretical 
value,” with only minimal constraints, and uses it to set a 
desired future state as a medium- to long-term goal. By 
identifying fundamental issues through the gap between the 
current state and the desired future state and relentlessly 
pursuing improvements, this approach generates results that 
go beyond conventional incremental improvement. 
 Since its launch in 2004, activities under this approach 
have steadily improved productivity and shortened 
manufacturing lead times at production sites in and outside 
Japan. Over the past 21 years, we have shared our theoretical-
value-based approach with suppliers and implemented it in 
energy management, logistics, and indirect operations, 
embedding it throughout the Group. As a result, we estimate 
we have achieved annual cost reductions of more than ¥1 
billion in Japan alone. Theoretical-value-based production is a 
source of competitiveness that underpins our Monozukuri. 
The Global Manufacturing Committee (GMC) is chaired by the 
Chief General Manager of the Manufacturing Center, with 
membership comprising the heads of Yamaha Motor’s overseas 
manufacturing bases. The committee serves as a forum for 
sharing and aligning manufacturing policies, medium-term 
strategies, and key initiatives across the global organization to 
realize Monozukuri that delivers Kando to customers. Today, 
its role extends beyond that of a committee, with support for 
overseas manufacturing sites, previously led by Japan, now 
carried out through collaboration among GMC members. For 
Theoretical-Value-Based Production  
as a Source of Competitiveness 
Production Management Structure 
(Global Manufacturing Committee) 
Manufacturing 
example, our team in Indonesia is supporting improvement 
activities in India, demonstrating how manufacturing sites 
complement one another, and share and expand best 
practices across the global network. 
 At the annual Monozukuri Conference held under the 
direction of GMC members, we implement the PDCA cycle for 
our medium-term manufacturing strategy based on GMC 
policies and promote coordinated activities across all sites to 
achieve global consolidated targets. 
By standardizing manufacturing systems, processes, and rules 
across factories worldwide, we aim to create an environment 
in which all sites can collaborate and complement one another 
from the perspective of overall optimization, operating as if 
they were a single factory. This leads to simpler and leaner 
factory operations and the ability to respond rapidly to changes 
in market conditions. Our overseas operations are currently 
working closely together to shorten lead times for new model 
launches and significantly reduce production preparation 
workloads. We will continue advancing these initiatives to 
strengthen our market competitiveness. 
Yamaha Motor is advancing Value Innovation Factory 
initiatives as part of its evolution toward next-generation 
Monozukuri. Defined as the combination of theoretical-value-
based production and digital transformation, these efforts 
leverage digital approaches to enhance the speed and 
precision of improvement and management activities, with 
the aim of achieving innovative Monozukuri. 
 To drive digital transformation at production sites, we believe 
the most effective approach in terms of speed, quality, and 
cost is for frontline employees to acquire digital transformation 
(DX) capabilities themselves. We have therefore been working 
to develop DX-capable manufacturing personnel. We aim to 
establish highly capable production sites where employees 
are able to leverage digital technologies themselves to monitor 
conditions, analyze data, formulate hypotheses, implement 
improvements, and verify results—completing the entire 
improvement cycle on their own. As a result, productivity and 
quality improvements are taking root across our production 
sites through initiatives such as visualizing production data, 
improving the quality of metal casting through the use of big 
data, and implementing automated image inspection. 
 As of the end of 2025, the number of manufacturing 
DX-capable manufacturing personnel had reached 178, 
representing 5% of employees at production sites. In 2024, we 
launched a digital transformation training program that takes 
advantage of periods of lower production activity, with the goal 
of expanding the number of DX-capable manufacturing 
personnel to approximately 500 by the end of 2027. We will 
continue to accelerate the implementation of theoretical-value-
based production combined with DX initiatives under the 
banner of a people-centered Value Innovation Factory. 
To deliver products to customers in the shortest possible time, 
we have installed new lines capable of producing all models in 
single-unit lots. This allows us to produce the desired model in 
the desired quantity. We have fully automated component 
transport, supply, and inspection, with the required components 
automatically delivered from throughout the factory in line with 
the assembly sequence. We have also adopted a mechanism 
that automatically adjusts assembly height to match each 
worker’s height and working posture, maximizing ease of 
operation and work speed while enhancing the value created by 
people. 
In response to a market 
environment characterized by 
greater product variety and smaller 
production volumes, we continue to 
evolve our Monozukuri to achieve 
both productivity and responsiveness 
to demand fluctuations. 
Close-Up  Single-Unit-Lot Motorcycle Production 
Global One Factory Concept
Creating New Value through Value 
Innovation Factory Initiatives 

[Page 20]
19
1. Inspiring Motivation
Making Life More Fulfilling through  
the Enjoyment Our Products Bring 
2. Supporting the Customer Experience 
Building Relationships Where Purchase Is  
Only the Starting Point 
3. Shifting from Product Choice to Brand Choice
Creating a Community of  
Lifelong Yamaha Motor Fans
Sources of Our Competitiveness 
To realize our Corporate Mission of being a Kando Creating Company, we are transforming Yamaha Motor into a strong, robust company that adapts 
quickly to change in the external environment while being capable of sustainable growth. As the foundation for this transformation, we are taking a 
customer-centric approach and enhancing our entire business process by integrating four key competitive strengths: marketing capabilities, product 
competitiveness, cost competitiveness, and supply capabilities. 
 At Yamaha Motor, being customer-centric means going beyond outcome indicators such as customer satisfaction. It involves understanding data on 
customers’ behavior, usage patterns, candid feedback, values, and motivations, and incorporating insights gained into business activities through analysis 
and visual representation. We will use such customer insights as a Groupwide foundation for the promotion of marketing initiatives across all businesses. 
A particularly important shift is moving the source of competitive advantage from the appeal of the product itself to the value of the experience it provides 
to customers. Rather than relying solely on superior features and performance, we will redefine the value we provide in terms of the enrichment it brings to 
customers’ lives in order to generate demand. Based on this approach, we will maximize LTV by identifying and delivering a consistent customer experience 
across every stage of the customer journey, from planning and development, to sales and after-sales service. We also position the acquisition and cultivation 
of loyal customers who continue to choose Yamaha Motor throughout their lives as a central focus of our marketing transformation. By building ongoing 
relationships with customers, we aim to strengthen our foundations for growth over the medium to long term and sustainably enhance corporate value. 
We are shifting from specification-based marketing, which focuses 
on product features and performance, to value-based marketing 
that highlights the experiences and fulfillment customers gain 
through Yamaha Motor products. Rather than simply communicating 
product advantages, we are redefining why customers choose our 
products. We do this by focusing on how the experience of using 
our products contributes to a life that is richer and more fulfilling. 
Through this value-driven approach, we seek to generate affinity 
and anticipation in customers’ decision-making, create latent 
demand, foster trust and affinity for the Yamaha Motor brand, and 
enhance LTV over the medium to long term. 
We are shifting from a relationship in which value peaks at the 
moment a product is bought to one in which value begins with the 
post-purchase experience. Through ongoing digital support and by 
providing opportunities for customers to connect, learn, and 
achieve personal growth, we seek to cultivate relationships that 
are built on post-purchase experiences. Through the accumulation 
of these experiences, we aim to inspire customer satisfaction and 
loyalty, and encourage repeat purchases and broader use of our 
products, thereby maximizing LTV. 
We aim to evolve from being a company whose individual products 
are chosen across a diverse product portfolio to one that is chosen 
for the Yamaha Motor brand itself. By continuing to provide meaningful 
experiences that evolve as customers age and go through various 
stages of life, we seek to build long-term relationships. Relationships 
built on affinity for the Yamaha Motor brand also lead to continued 
engagement and cross-selling opportunities, increasing LTV and 
stable revenue generation over the course of a customer’s lifetime. 
Rebuilding Customer-Centric Marketing—Creating Sustainable Value by Maximizing Customer Lifetime Value (LTV) 
Yamaha Motor has appointed a director responsible for marketing to 
further strengthen its marketing capabilities and drive the 
transformation of customer-centric marketing. By accurately 
understanding changes in customer expectations and behavior, and 
translating those insights into value creation, we aim to continue 
delivering even greater Kando to our customers. 
Strengths 
and 
Characteristics
•  Sales and services in over 180 countries and regions 
•  Coordination across our global network and consistent marketing 
•  Brand strength built on emotional value 
Challenges
•  Lack of clearly articulated marketing approaches and KPIs 
•  Lagging behind in digital marketing capabilities 
•  Overemphasis on product sales
Marketing 
Marketing Transformation Themes 
1
Inspiring motivation 
 Making life more fulfilling through 
the enjoyment our products bring 
2
Supporting the customer 
experience 
 Building relationships where 
purchase is only the starting point 
3
Shifting from product choice  
to brand choice 
Creating a community of Yamaha 
Motor fans 
Strengthening the communication of 
experiential value beyond product 
specifications 
bLU cRU
Supporting amateur racers
My Yamaha Motor
Customer reward program  
powered by digital engagement 

[Page 21]
20
Value Creation 
Case Study
Creating New Experiential Value through 
Greater Freedom at the Helm
Our Marine Products business is committed to delivering reliability and 
a richer marine lifestyle while expanding the value of experiences on 
the water. However, boat handling has traditionally relied heavily on 
experience and skill, creating significant barriers for beginners and 
older users. To overcome these challenges, we introduced the Wireless 
Station, a new Helm Master EX system feature. As the name indicates, 
Wireless Station makes the boat control system wireless, enabling 
captains to operate their boats from virtually anywhere on board. This 
enables better visibility while maneuvering, facilitates communication 
with passengers, and allows them to enjoy activities such as fishing 
while remaining in control of the boat. Developed based on customer 
feedback, the Wireless Station was conceived at our U.S. operations in 
2019, with sites in Japan and United States jointly advancing mass-
production development from 2021 onward. The handset is lightweight, 
waterproof, can be operated with one hand, and is designed to float on 
water. It also has a safety function that automatically stops the 
outboard motor if the operator or a passenger falls overboard. 
Commercially launched in 2025, the product is the culmination of 
Yamaha Motor’s decades of expertise in boat control technologies and 
its commitment to developing solutions to real-world customer needs.
Technological Innovation Supporting  
Safe Navigation and Reliability
A key to developing the Wireless Station was maintaining the high 
levels of safety and reliability that have always been hallmarks of our 
products. The system features a newly developed wireless man 
overboard (MOB) detection system that continuously monitors the 
signal from a tag carried by the operator. If the signal is interrupted 
because the operator falls overboard, the system automatically cuts 
the outboard motor’s propulsion, helping prevent accidents. The 
system also works with wearable tags carried by passengers to alert 
the operator if someone falls overboard, enhancing safety when there 
are several people aboard. Furthermore, the system disables wireless 
operation if the MOB tag is not properly connected, further enhancing 
safety. Continuous monitoring of the wireless connection and a robust 
control system reduce the burden on the operator associated with the 
shift to wireless operation.
 The system achieves a high level of both convenience and safety, 
creating a new way to enjoy boating. By delivering a freer and more 
intuitive boat-handling experience, the Wireless Station creates new 
value for a wide range of users, including beginners and families.  
We will continue to drive user-centered innovation to expand the 
possibilities of marine leisure.
01
New Ways to Handle Boats with 
the Helm Master EX Wireless Station
Social Needs
•  Reducing operator burden through easier handling
• Lowering barriers to marine leisure
Value for Society
•  Providing opportunities for beginners and older users to enjoy 
marine leisure activities with peace of mind
•  Providing a more enjoyable boating experience through enhanced 
handling capabilities
•  Contributing to marine conservation by reducing CO2 emissions 
through more efficient boat operation
Fun in Mobility Exciting mobility experiences  Fulfilling Life Improving quality of life
Using Capital and Leveraging Strengths
Intellectual Capital  Expertise in handling, knowledge of sea 
conditions, and outboard motor control 
technologies cultivated over more than 60 
years in the Marine Products business
Human Capital  Human resources committed to maximizing 
customer value
Manufactured Capital Global development framework

[Page 22]
Certification
bodies 
E.g. international and
Japanese certification
bodies
Overview of Value Chain 
(Yamaha Motor’s role shown 
here is one example.) 
Intermediaries
E.g. carbon credit
providers
Project
developers
E.g. local governments, 
forestry cooperatives 
Buyers
E.g. companies seeking
to offset emissions
Application for 
carbon credit 
certification 
Carbon credit 
purchase 
Carbon credit 
sales 
Marketing and fees
Request for carbon 
credit origination 
Carbon credit 
certification 
and issuance 
Fees 
Forestry 
surveys 
21
02
Creating Value through Surveys That  
Visualize the Value of Natural Capital and  
Support Its Conservation and Utilization
Unmanned Aircraft and High-Precision 
Measurement Technologies for Visualizing 
the Value of Natural Capital
Leveraging our expertise in compact, lightweight engine 
technologies and control technologies, in 1987 we 
commercialized the world’s first industrial-use unmanned 
helicopter, the R-50. Since then, as a leader in industrial-use 
unmanned helicopters for applications such as agricultural 
spraying, we have helped improve labor efficiency and 
productivity in agriculture amid declining and aging farming 
populations. In recent years, we have expanded the use of 
unmanned aircraft to include survey operations, and began 
offering forestry surveys in 2019. We have established a 
highly accurate measurement method. It uses the FAZER R 
G2 industrial-use unmanned helicopter equipped with LiDAR* 
to capture detailed information about individual trees and 
topographic data. We have also built a service platform in 
collaboration with Yamaha Motor Solutions India, a Group 
company, to visualize and analyze the vast amount of data 
acquired through LiDAR. In addition to its use in assessing 
forest resources and helping to generate carbon credits, we 
expect these technologies to find applications in a wide range 
of other fields, including the surveying and preservation of 
archaeological sites and natural heritage.
*  LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging): A technology that uses laser light to precisely measure 
the distance to and shape of objects based on the time it takes for the reflected light to return
Social Needs
•  Data utilization for the preservation of forests and other natural heritage
•  Demand for data to support disaster prevention and mitigation through rapid, 
large-area terrain mapping
•  Improving labor efficiency and resource management in agriculture and forestry
Value for Society
• Contributing to the reduction of natural disaster risks
• Preserving natural and cultural heritage around the world
• Enabling sustainable resource management by visualizing natural capital
Fulfilling Life Resolving societal issues  Harmony with the Earth Conserving ecosystems
Using Capital and Leveraging Strengths
Intellectual Capital  Compact, lightweight engine technologies 
and control technologies cultivated through 
our diverse product portfolio
Human Capital  Group companies with the Spirit of Challenge 
for developing new businesses and advanced 
technological capabilities
Social and 
Relationship Capital
  Industry–academia–government collaboration 
leveraging unmanned aircraft and LiDAR
Application in the Carbon Credit Sector to 
Support Natural Capital Conservation
As part of our efforts to properly evaluate the value of 
forests and promote their conservation, we began expanding 
into the carbon credit sector in 2025. Forests are an 
important form of natural capital. They support a sustainable 
society by providing not only timber resources, but also a 
wide range of ecosystem services, including CO2 absorption, 
biodiversity conservation, water resource protection, and 
disaster risk mitigation. However, such value can be difficult 
to quantify and is therefore not always fully recognized. We 
use high-precision measurement technologies to assess 
forest conditions objectively and efficiently. By applying the 
Value Creation 
Case Study
resulting data to estimate forest resources and CO2 
absorption, we help with sustainable forest management 
and the generation of carbon credits. Through these efforts, 
we are able to visualize the environmental value of forests 
and promote conservation activities based on that value.
 Helping to generate carbon credits and conducting 
archaeological surveys are just two examples of how our 
measurement technologies can contribute to resolving 
societal issues. We will continue contributing to the 
preservation of natural capital and cultural heritage through 
high-precision measurement technologies and data 
utilization, thereby helping build a more sustainable society.

[Page 23]
Innovation
Fun in Mobility Fulfilling Life Harmony with the Earth
Carbon Neutrality Safety and Reliability
Exciting mobility 
experiences 
Pursuit of safety 
and reliability 
Resolving 
societal issues 
Improving quality 
of life 
Contributing to 
decarbonization and 
a circular economy 
Conserving ecosystems 
Yamaha Motor’s Materiality Issues
Value Creation Story Outcomes
Long-Term Vision for 2030
Dialogue with stakeholders
Analysis of the external environment
22
Materiality Issues
In 2024, with a view to realizing our Long-Term Vision for 2030, we reassessed our value creation story and important societal 
issues (i.e., materiality issues). In redefining our value creation story, we updated our materiality issues so as to focus on 
maximizing corporate value while ensuring harmony with society and the global environment. Our materiality issues were 
determined based on our Long-Term Vision. Moreover, measures to address them have been reflected in the Medium-Term 
Management Plan launched in 2025. 
The status of sustainability management—including the results of environmental management initiatives, progress in improving 
the corporate culture to accelerate human capital management, and the overall progress and results of risk and compliance 
management—is used as an evaluation metric for Companywide performance-based compensation for directors, including the 
President and Representative Director but excluding outside directors. 
Process for Identifying Important Societal Issues 
Materiality Issues in Realizing Our Value Creation Story
Revisiting our value creation story based on our history of value creation, Corporate Mission, 
and Long-Term Vision 
We looked back on the social value created by Yamaha Motor since its founding in 1955 and discussed the corporate culture 
and accumulated assets (inputs) that are the source of value creation. We also reassessed our value creation story to better 
align with our Long-Term Vision and Corporate Mission, taking into account shifts in the external environment and dialogue 
with shareholders, institutional investors, and other stakeholders. 
STEP 1
Identifying materiality issues on the way to delivering outcomes from our value creation story 
To achieve the three goals defined in the value creation story, senior management (including the President and Representative 
Director) discussed the Company’s key issues from the perspective of sustainable development for both society and Yamaha 
Motor. Based on societal expectations and demands, as well as risks and opportunities in the market, we identified innovation, 
carbon neutrality, and safety and reliability as priority material issues. 
STEP 2
Consultations with the Sustainability Committee, outside directors, and experts to verify validity 
To validate our materiality issues, we sought input from external experts and held discussions with employees. Ultimately, 
after multiple rounds of intensive discussions by the Sustainability Committee and the Executive Discussion Meeting (whose 
members include outside directors), the value creation story and materiality issues were finalized by senior management 
(including the President and Representative Director). 
STEP 3
Board resolution on materiality issues 
Following consultations at the Sustainability Committee and the Environment Committee (both advisory bodies to the Management 
Committee), the issues were deliberated upon by the Management Committee, and approved by the Board of Directors. 
STEP 4

[Page 24]
23
Key Materiality Issues 
Materiality Issues
Vision for 2030 Medium-term targets (2025–2027) Results (2025) 
Innovation
Creating value with customers
Risks   Reduced competitiveness in the 
market and business environment 
Opportunities   New mobility demand, including for 
vehicles incorporating CASE
1
 
technologies and for mobility as a 
service (MaaS) 
Motorcycles 
Through digital services,  
foster lasting connections  
with customers 
(1)  Number of countries with customer reward 
programs: 5 total 
(2)  Establish customer database at dealerships  
Number of Yamaha Motor IDs (cumulative):  
12.8 million registrants 
(1)  Number of countries with customer reward programs:  
1 (Philippines) 
(2)  Number of Yamaha Motor IDs (cumulative from 2020): 8.2 million 
Marine 
Products 
Enhance customer experiences 
by evolving into an integrated 
boat business 
(1)  Expand peripheral products and services for 
boats 
(2)  Broaden the scope of business services across 
the entire marine products ecosystem  
Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of parts 
and service sales: 12% 
(1) •  Introduced the Wireless Joystick, which enables steering control 
from anywhere on board, not just from the helm station 
 •  Introduced the next-generation HARMO electric boat control 
system in Japan 
(2) •  Introduced Siren 3 with expanded compatibility across connected 
products 
 •  Established Yamaha Motor Connected Innovation (YMCI) in 
Finland, a new company for digital platform and connected 
technology development 
 •  Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of parts and service sales: 
6.7% (compared with 2024) 
Carbon Neutrality
Reducing CO2 emissions
Risks   Tightening of regulations and 
declining sales due to global 
warming 
Opportunities   •  Responding to diverse external 
changes through a multi-pathway 
approach 
 •  Increased demand in new areas 
through biofuel and carbon-neutral 
fuel technology development 
Scope 1 
and 2
80% reduction 
(per unit of sales revenue; 
compared with 2010) 
(1)  74% reduction (per unit of sales revenue; 
compared with 2010) 
(2)  Expand use of renewable energy: 15% or higher 
(1) 73% reduction (per unit of sales revenue) 
(2) 11% 
Scope 3 
Category 11 
13% reduction (emissions intensity; compared with 2024) 
Motorcycles 
Strengthen lineup 
in the commuter 
and recreational 
segments 
(1) Launch multiple new platform models 
(2)  Develop and introduce three new engine models 
with improved fuel efficiency 
(1) 2 models:  CUXiE (Launched in Taiwan in September 2025)  
JOG E (Advance launch in Japan in December 2025) 
(2) 4 models under development 
Marine 
Products 
Electrification of 
5% of all outboard 
motor models in 
developed 
countries 
(1)  Expand sales of electric outboard motors 
manufactured by Torqeedo GmbH  
Share of outboard motors sold in developed 
countries: 4% of total units 
(1) 3.65% 
Safety and Reliability
Zero fatal accidents involving our products
Risks   Rising number of traffic accidents 
Opportunities   Increased demand for existing 
forms of mobility 
Motorcycles
Develop products and services 
centered on technologies, user 
skills, and connectivity 
(1)  Continue development of advanced rider 
assistance systems (ARAS) 
(2)  Expand Yamaha Riding Academy (YRA)  
Participants: 360,000 across 6,600 sessions in 
32 countries 
(3)  Number of downloads of Y-Connect vehicle 
connectivity app (cumulative): 8.4 million (2027) 
(1)  TRACER9 GT ABS and TRACER9 GT+ Y-AMT ABS: Equipped with 
Matrix LED headlights (a world first for a motorcycle
2
), an 
Emergency Stop Signal (ESS) system, and the Yamaha Variable 
Speed Limiter (YVSL) 
(2)  Participants: 159,000 across 2,111 sessions in 35 countries 
(3) Number of downloads (cumulative): 6.1 million 
Marine 
Products 
Introduce products and services 
aimed at achieving zero 
accidents during boat operation 
(1)  Introduce and promote overboard detection 
systems for boat passengers (1) Introduced the Man Overboard (MOB) system 
 Please refer to our website for a comprehensive list of targets, initiatives, and results for all materiality issues. 
→ p. 45
→ p. 20
→ p. 45
1. CASE: Connected, Autonomous, Shared and Service, Electric
2. Yamaha Motor data (As of February 2025)

[Page 25]
Medium- to Long-Term Strategies
Long-Term Vision2019–2021
Adapting to 
the COVID-19 pandemic 
2022–2024
Implementing portfolio 
management 
2025–2027
Reinforcing the competitiveness 
of core businesses 
2028–2030
Generating technologies that 
expand human possibilities 
Business Portfolio Strategy
Environmental
Plan 
Human Capital
Management 
Risk and Compliance
Management 
Cash AllocationsR&D and Capital Expenditures
Financial Strategy 
Sustainability Foundations 
Technology
Strategy
Financial
Services 
Digital
Transformation
Strategy Motorcycles 
Marine Products 
Core
Businesses 
Robotics 
SPV 
OLV 
Strategic
Businesses 
24
Summary of Medium-Term 
Management Plan (2025–2027)
Drawing on the achievements and lessons learned during the three-year period from 2022 to 2024, we formulated 
a new Medium-Term Management Plan for the period starting 2025. Guided by our Corporate Mission to be a 
Kando Creating Company, we are working toward realizing our Long-Term Vision—ART for Human Possibilities. 
To that end, our current Medium-Term Management Plan is built around three key pillars: stabilizing business 
profitability, advancing technological innovation, and improving responsiveness to market needs. 
Summary of Medium-Term Management Plan (2025–2027) Results under Previous MTP 
The basic policies of the previous medium-term management plan were to 
strengthen the earning power of our core businesses, invest in new and growing 
businesses that contribute to the creation of a sustainable world, and accelerate 
digital initiatives and co-creation to boost our growth potential. In our core 
businesses, return on sales (ROS) improved through the expansion of the Marine 
Products business and enhanced profitability in motorcycles for emerging 
markets, while challenges remained in new and growth businesses. 
•  Increased market 
volatility 
•  Acceleration of digital 
initiatives 
• Climate change 
•  Diversification of values 
• Greater polarization 
Changes in External 
Environment 
•  Stabilizing business 
profitability 
•  Strengthening in-house 
capabilities to respond 
to accelerating 
technological innovation 
•  Accelerating decision-
making to respond 
promptly to market 
needs 
Key Challenges  
Identified 
Our business portfolio strategy identifies core and strategic businesses for us to focus on. 
We will strengthen competitiveness in these businesses through our technology strategy, 
digital transformation strategy, and Financial Services business, as the platform for our 
next stage of growth. We will expand capital investments to build the foundation for 
business growth toward 2030 and accelerate digital transformation, while also exploring 
M&A opportunities. Moreover, we will further strengthen our sustainability foundations in 
order to achieve sustainable growth and enhance corporate value.
Business portfolio 
Core
ROS improvement from expansion of Marine Products and stronger 
profitability of Motorcycles in emerging nations 
• ROS 2022–2024 average: Plan 11%  Actual 13% 
New/Growth 
Slump in growth businesses from sudden market slowdown due to 
change in supply-demand balance 
• 2022–2024 growth business CAGR: Plan 19%  Actual -4% 
•  2022–2024 new business revenue: Plan ¥30 billion  Actual ¥3 billion 
Structural 
reforms 
Business reorganization and Group company merger 
• Reorganization of power product, pool, and snowmobile businesses 
• Absorption-type merger of Yamaha Motor Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Initiatives to achieve 
carbon neutrality 
Introduction of renewable energy facilities and promotion of multi-
pathway initiatives 
• Scope 1 and 2 emissions reductions vs. 2010: 72% 
•  Market launches of eight electric motorcycle models, development 
and exhibition of hydrogen engine outboard motors 
Digital transformation 
strategy 
Building the foundation for reforming management platforms 
•  Worldwide deployment of management dashboard 
Human resources 
strategy 
Promotion of DE&I and talent development 
• Headquarters engagement score: Plan 70%  Actual 63% 
Growth Rate 
Revenue 
2027
Over ¥3.1 trillion 
CAGR 
Over 7% 
Profitability 
(Three-Year 
Average) 
Operating Profit Margin 
Over 9%
Efficiency
(Three-Year 
Average) 
Capital Efficiency 
ROE
14% range 
ROIC
8% range
ROA
9% range
Shareholder 
Returns 
(Three-Year 
Period) 
Total Payout Ratio 
Continuous and stable shareholder returns
Over 40% cumulative total for the three-year period 
Growth Rate 
Revenue 
2024
¥2.6 trillion 
CAGR
12%
Profitability 
(Three-Year 
Average) 
Operating Profit Margin 
9.1%
Efficiency 
(Three-Year 
Average)
Capital Efficiency 
ROE
14.6%
ROIC
8.8%
ROA
9.5%
Shareholder 
Returns 
(Three-Year 
Period) 
Total Payout Ratio 
46.9%
Financial Indicators Fiscal 2024 Results 
Raise the competitiveness of our core businesses, acquire new technologies that expand 
human possibilities, and take on uniquely Yamaha Motor challenges to create a world 
where people live in happiness and coexist in harmony with the environment. 
Basic 
Policy 
KPIs for 2027 
Share of Motorcycle 
Premium Segment 42%
Large Outboard 
Motors Sales Ratio 32%
ROS in Core 
Businesses 14%
Capital  
Expenditure 1.3 times previous plan 
M&A Funding  
Limit ¥300 billion
2025–2027 Targets
(Exchange rate assumptions: USD 1:JPY 145; EUR 1:JPY 155)
Note:  Projected medium-term WACC in 7% range  (including Financial Services) 

[Page 26]
Revenue CAGR 
Notes: 1. Business ROIC does not include headquarters corporate 
expenses. 
2. Business hurdle rate is set at 12.5% to account for the 
impact of Financial Services business and headquarters 
corporate expenses. 
12.5%
(Hurdle Rate) 
ROIC
0%
Strategic 
Businesses
Strategic 
Businesses
Core 
Businesses
Motorcycles 
Marine 
Products 
SPV
Robotics 
OLV
25
Summary of Medium-Term Management Plan (2025–2027)
Business Portfolio Direction 
We manage our business portfolio using revenue growth rate and ROIC as key performance 
indicators. Moving forward, we aim to achieve a portfolio in which all businesses exceed our 
hurdle rate. 
 Under the current Medium-Term Management Plan, we position our core Motorcycles and 
Marine Products businesses as the primary drivers of growth and are working to further 
reinforce their competitiveness. Through focused investment, we will strengthen our products, 
technologies, and service capabilities, thereby achieving both sustainable growth and improved 
profitability. Looking ahead to 2030, we plan to spend a cumulative ¥290 billion on R&D and 
¥234 billion on capital expenditures over the three years 2025–2027. For our strategic 
Robotics and Smart Power Vehicle (SPV) businesses, we will focus on medium- to long-term 
growth potential and establish strong market positions. 
Core 
Businesses 
Motorcycles 
We will expand our lineup of attractive products and use digital technologies to 
enhance user services. In the ASEAN region and other emerging markets, we will 
strengthen our premium model segment strategy, and work to increase brand value 
and deepen customer engagement by enhancing the customer experience. In the 
electric motorbike field, we will combine in-house development with external 
partnerships. 
Marine 
Products
We aim to maximize customer value by expanding our large outboard motor lineup and 
advancing our integrated boat business. We will continue to introduce next-generation 
control systems, connected technologies, and electric outboard motors to deliver 
diverse, advanced marine experiences. Although the business environment in the 
United States, a key market, continues to change, demand for large outboard motors is 
expected to remain strong. 
Strategic 
Businesses
Robotics and 
SPV 
In the Robotics business, we will pursue both growth and profitability by supporting a 
rapidly digitalizing world and transforming mobility through one-stop smart solutions. 
We will improve business efficiency and expand market share by concentrating 
management resources in growth areas. In the SPV business, we aim to drive business 
growth by empowering people to take on new challenges through environmentally 
friendly mobility in the form of electrically power-assisted bicycles. 
OLV 
Although ROIC is expected to remain below the hurdle rate through 2027, we will work 
to create synergies by leveraging our product portfolio in the growing North American 
outdoor recreation market. In response to the impact of tariffs and changes in demand, 
we will rebuild our earnings base through disciplined cost management and optimized 
resource allocation. 
New 
Businesses 
Under the current Medium-Term Management Plan, we are focused on growing our agricultural, mobility 
services, and low-speed automated vehicles businesses. In agriculture, through Yamaha Agriculture, Inc., 
which was established in the United States, we launched operations in North America and Oceania that 
combine robotic solutions with advanced data analytics. We aim to contribute to the realization of 
sustainable and highly profitable agriculture. In mobility services, we operate mobility asset management 
and last-mile delivery businesses in India and Africa, helping address social challenges such as meeting 
increasingly diverse mobility needs and creating employment opportunities. In the field of low-speed 
automated vehicles, we are advancing solutions to labor shortages in logistics and local mobility challenges 
through the development of autonomous driving technologies for use under specific operating conditions. 
Environmental Plan 2050 
We are advancing Environmental Plan 2050 based on the 
three priority action areas of climate change, resource 
recycling, and biodiversity. In addressing climate change, we 
introduced an all-electric painting line in 2025 as part of our 
efforts to achieve carbon neutrality by 2035. In resource 
recycling, we aim to achieve a 100% sustainable raw materials* 
usage rate by 2050. Under the current Medium-Term 
Management Plan, we plan to increase this rate to 18%. In 
biodiversity, we will advance solutions that show consideration 
for the well-being of both ecosystems and people. 
* Sustainable raw materials include recycled, green, and biomass-based materials. 
Human Capital Management 
We have established global engagement as a KPI and set a 
target of achieving a positive score of 80% or higher. 
To strengthen talent management, we will expand global 
talent development programs and build a human resources 
database. In addition, we aim to increase the global ratio of 
women managers to 13% by 2027 as part of our DE&I 
initiatives. In 2025, the global engagement score was 82.4%. 
Risk and Compliance Management 
Based on the key pillars of Global, Integrated and Agile, we 
will identify, manage, and appropriately control foreseeable 
risks. We will continue to identify risks that we foresee 
affecting our management and businesses, and control them 
appropriately. Under a system led by the Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer (CRCO), we will respond quickly to 
environmental changes, as well as share responsibility and 
authority on a global basis, thereby further advancing the 
sophistication of our management.
❶
Core 
Businesses 
Motorcycles and Marine Products 
Balancing both growth and profitability 
Reinvest business profits into product development 
and facilities to secure high market share in focus 
areas, balancing both growth and profitability. 
❷
Strategic 
Businesses
Robotics and SPV 
Establish a position among the industry’s 
top three 
Establish a position among the industry’s top three 
in these long-term growth markets. Explore M&A 
and other opportunities as first steps to that end. 
OLV 
Building the foundation for 2030 
Have the increasingly crucial North American 
market play a part in our integration strategy. 
❸
New 
Businesses 
Identify areas for business expansion and areas in 
which assessment and portfolio revisions within 
the new business framework are necessary. 
Focus areas: Agriculture, mobility services, 
low-speed automated vehicles 
Key Measures for Strengthening the Portfolio 
→ p. 30 → p. 62→ p. 44

[Page 27]
26
From the Chief General Manager of Corporate Planning & Finance Center
Mitsuru Hashimoto
Executive Officer
Chief General Manager of Corporate Planning & 
Finance Center
Review of the First Year of the Medium-Term 
Management Plan and Our Future Outlook
Our financial results for fiscal 2025 fell far below 
expectations. In the first year of Medium-Term Management 
Plan (2025–2027), in addition to having to absorb the impact 
of U.S. tariffs, we were unable to offset the increased burden 
of upfront investments for growth through higher earnings. 
As a result, consolidated revenue decreased 1.6% year on 
year to ¥2,534.2 billion and consolidated operating profit 
declined a substantial 30.4% to ¥126.4 billion. Although 
consolidated operating profit slightly exceeded the revised 
forecast we announced in August 2025, this included a ¥19.4 
billion gain on the sale of land by a subsidiary in Taiwan and 
other positive one-time factors. I am aware that absent 
these, our real performance was even more disappointing. 
Profit attributable to owners of parent decreased 85.1% year 
on year to ¥16.1 billion, falling significantly short of the 
revised forecast. This was due to a larger-than-expected 
reversal of deferred tax assets resulting from a 
reassessment of future business prospects.
 In the Motorcycle business, unit sales remained firm due 
to factors including strong performance in Indonesia, the 
Philippines, and Thailand. However, as costs rose in R&D, 
personnel, and other areas, the impact of quality issues and 
floods in Vietnam, together with inventory adjustments and 
currency depreciation in Brazil, impeded earnings growth. In 
Marine Products, we expect the trend toward large outboard 
motors to continue; nevertheless, recovery in demand was 
weaker than anticipated. In addition, despite our attempts to 
pass on costs due to U.S. tariffs while monitoring trends 
among our competitors, the impact on earnings was still 
heavy and operating profit declined substantially year on year.
 Among our strategic businesses, the success of initiatives 
thus far in the Robotics business has brought it closer to 
profitability. The absence of one-time expenses recorded in 
the previous year reduced operating loss in the Smart Power 
Vehicle (SPV) business, but issues remain to be resolved 
before achieving profitability. For Yamaha Motor eBike 
Systems GmbH (YMESG), established following an acquisition 
in Europe, the post-merger integration process is currently 
under way as we rebuild the earnings base. In order to make 
full Groupwide use of the resources obtained through the 
acquisition, we are aware that we must make clear how the 
company will generate synergy and promptly use that 
narrative to drive specific actions. 
 On the other hand, results in the Outdoor Land Vehicle (OLV) 
business were particularly unfavorable. In addition to a decline 
in unit sales and the impact of tariffs, operating loss grew 
significantly due to the recording of impairment losses on fixed 
assets. I realize that the manner in which we address unprofitable 
businesses like this one is a matter of great interest to investors. 
Taking this into consideration, we intend to announce our plans 
for the OLV business at some point during this summer.
We will overcome this difficult chapter, transition to  
a more robust profit structure, improve capital efficiency, 
and generate stable cash flows.

[Page 28]
2024
  Result
( $/ €：152/164)*
Sales
factors
Cost
factors
R&D
expenses
SG&A
expenses
Other Exchange
effects
Tariff
effects
181.5 -3.5 -9.2
-24.7
-18.6 +20.3 -6.1 -13.4
126.4
2025
  Result
  ( $/ €：150/169)*
Sales
factors
Cost
factors
R&D
expenses
SG&A
expenses
Other Exchange
effects
Tariff
effects
2026
  Initial Forecast
  ( $/ €：155/175)*
(= billion)
+108.1 -14.0
-10.5
-4.1 +1.0 +10.3 -37.2
180.0
Changes in the Business Environment since the 
Announcement of the Medium-Term Management Plan
Additional U.S. tariffs
and policy changes
Sudden changes in policies and
the economic environment
Economic uncertainty
Impact on demand trends
Procurement risks
Shortages of rare earth minerals,
semiconductors, etc.
Geopolitical risks
Escalating tensions
in the Middle East
Adapting to Changes
in the Business Environment
Cost structure reforms
Establish resilient business foundations unaffected by external factors
Meticulous cost management
Strictly control costs in line with sales scale
Capitalize on earnings opportunities
Prioritize resource allocation to the promotion of premium and growth segments
Disburse procurement risks
Establish a procurement network spanning multiple regions and suppliers
Impact of Tariffs (Gross) Profit Improvement 
Measures at U.S. Subsidiaries
Cost increases 
from 2025
Approx. ¥37.0
  billion
Profit improvement
in 2026
Approx. ¥37.0
  billion
Countermeasures
Price pass-throughs, review of model development, review of cost structure at YMMC, 
reduction of IT investment, workforce reductions at U.S. subsidiary, increased asset 
efficiency, addressing unprofitable businesses
27
From the Chief General Manager of Corporate Planning & Finance Center
 Under these challenging earnings conditions, we ramped 
up the selection and concentration of operations during the 
second half of fiscal 2025, particularly in Japan and the 
United States. Under President Motofumi Shitara’s 
leadership, we are working to transform into a strong, robust 
company that adapts quickly to change, taking our most 
rigorous stance yet to control costs and secure profits. We 
believe these initiatives will be key in achieving a recovery in 
performance from fiscal 2026 onward.
 One particularly difficult decision regarding our reforms 
involved measures to improve profitability in the United 
States. Changes in the business environment have significantly 
worsened local profitability and financial conditions, which 
has made lowering the break-even point an urgent issue. We 
have announced measures to improve variable expenses, 
such as passing on costs to prices and reducing procurement 
spending at Yamaha Motor Manufacturing Corporation of 
America (YMMC), but our main focus will be on fixed cost 
reductions, including more painful choices such as workforce 
reductions. Despite ongoing uncertainty about U.S. interest 
rate trends and tariff trends, we will steadily implement the 
measures we have announced while remaining vigilant for 
signs of a market rebound to secure a firm grasp on the 
recovery phase.
 Another difficult decision was the reduction of the year-
end dividend. Amid rising capital needs that included a 
capital injection at a U.S. subsidiary and the acquisition of 
shares held by a partner company of a Taiwan subsidiary, we 
made the decision from a holistic perspective that seeks to 
maintain financial soundness while balancing investments 
for future growth with shareholder returns.
 In fiscal 2026, we will further accelerate cost structure 
reforms toward staging a recovery in business performance. 
Our forecast for the year is consolidated revenue of ¥2.7 
trillion, up 6.5% year on year, and consolidated operating 
profit of ¥180 billion, up 42.4% year on year. Although the 
impact of U.S. tariffs on profit is expected to increase 
significantly from fiscal 2025, we plan to absorb it through 
increased sales in core businesses, the implementation of 
pricing strategies, and cost structure reforms. During the two 
years since we transitioned to IFRS accounting standards, we 
have declared impairments on fixed assets and investments. 
I believe that improvements in business profitability are now 
more directly reflected in our financial performance and that 
the groundwork for a recovery in earnings is in place.
Initiatives to Improve Profitability in the Changing U.S. Market
Operating Profit Bridge Analysis
* Exchange rate against the yen as of December 31 of the corresponding year

[Page 29]
28
Financial Strategy and Progress
In fiscal 2025, worsening business conditions also increased 
the difficulty of cash allocation decision making. While we 
continued to make upfront investments, we supplemented 
the lower operating cash flow with the sale of land and other 
fixed assets, as well as through fundraising that included 
increased long-term borrowings. In fiscal 2026, we expect 
improved cash flow due to a recovery in business performance. 
In addition, with global interest rates rising, I believe we can 
reduce our gross debt balance by improving capital efficiency 
within the Yamaha Motor Group. Basically, each region 
manages its cash independently, but while our U.S. operations 
face severe funding pressures due to worsening conditions, 
some of our other major subsidiaries have excess liquidity, 
creating imbalances in cash positions across regions and 
bases. Although we operate while monitoring the financial 
conditions in each region, there is substantial room for 
improvement in capital efficiency and cash management 
Groupwide. In fiscal 2026, strengthening global cash 
management will be a priority theme, along with limiting 
cash outflow and increasing inflow.
 Inventory management has improved over the past year 
and is now more or less under control. However, it is still at  
a level below that of our competitors, indicating the need for 
further steps to reduce costs and achieve even more efficient 
operations. We are monitoring the cash conversion cycle (CCC) 
on a monthly basis as a KPI for strengthening the plan-do-
check-act (PDCA) cycle. A particular issue is operations at 
businesses in the U.S. and Europe, where inventory risk is 
high. Because these regions import and sell products 
manufactured in Japan, lead times are inevitably longer. 
Taking this into account, in Europe, for example, we have 
incorporated economic value added (EVA) as a KPI in our 
management and are working to bring across-the-board 
improvements to profitability and cash flow.
 To improve inventory management from the ground up 
for a transformation into a strong, robust company, we need 
to clarify decision-making frameworks and the delegation of 
authority across all business processes—from production 
through to sales. Our recent organizational restructuring is 
part of that effort. For inventory management, close 
collaboration between the heads of our manufacturing and 
sales functions is crucial. I believe the appointment of a new 
director in charge of marketing in fiscal 2026 will strengthen 
management and bolster initiatives to bring down inventory 
levels. Under this new structure, in fiscal 2026 we will further 
raise the effectiveness of our PDCA cycle—centered on 
planned unit production—to realize our goal of becoming a 
strong, robust company.
Implementing Management Conscious of  
Cost of Capital
For management conscious of cost of capital, we have 
incorporated ROIC into our business portfolio strategy and set 
a hurdle rate. Awareness of capital efficiency is also rising 
among management teams throughout the Group as the 
result of changes such as adopting CCC as a KPI, as mentioned 
previously. Moreover, approaches based on the ROIC tree—a 
visualization tool that breaks down ROIC into management 
indicators like profitability and capital efficiency—is 
gradually taking root and being comprehensively applied to 
improve operations on the ground. We drew up measures to 
improve profitability at U.S. bases, each with the underlying 
elements of ROIC in mind. However, we are still in the process 
of implementing those measures in the management of each 
business, so this remains an ongoing challenge. Another issue 
is excessive polarization in our business portfolio. While the 
Motorcycles and Marine Products businesses are able to 
pursue ROIC improvements while balancing them with 
profitability, investments, and other factors, discussing ROIC 
is unfortunately still too early for the SPV and OLV businesses, 
where rebuilding the businesses themselves and determining 
their future direction are urgent priorities. I believe using 
ROIC for more sophisticated business management while 
taking the circumstances of each business into account in this 
way is essential for us to be a strong, robust company. This is 
an area with room for future growth and I will personally 
engage in sincere dialogue with investors as we pursue the 
right direction for medium- to long-term growth.
 The first year of the current Medium-Term Management 
Plan was disappointing in terms of financial results, but we 
were able to step up and accelerate Companywide problem-
solving initiatives aimed at transforming us into a strong, 
robust company that adapts quickly to change. Our 
Corporate Mission is to be a Kando Creating Company. As 
such, our corporate activities are grounded in always offering 
products and services that allow customers to experience the 
special form of excitement and satisfaction we call Kando. 
From a financial perspective as well, we believe our role is to 
sustainably support the creation of Kando. While ensuring 
financial soundness, we will continue to implement cost 
structure reforms aimed at balancing short-term earnings 
recovery with medium- to long-term improvements in capital 
efficiency. I look forward to your continued support.
From the Chief General Manager of Corporate Planning & Finance Center

[Page 30]
Foundation Building (2022–2024) 
  Build digital infrastructure for new value creation  
 • Ran proof-of-concept projects for multiple service businesses, 
constructed service infrastructure 
• Moved to bring generative AI services in-house 
  Expand interactive links to customers 
 • Connected motorcycles sold: 
500,000  (2021 result) ➡ 1.25  million units  (2024 result) 
• Yamaha Motor ID registrants: 
4.70 million  (MTP target) ➡ 7.93 million  (2024 result) 
   Build the foundation for reforming management platforms 
  • Completed construction of global templates 
• Management dashboard launched worldwide 
   Increase in the number of employees proficient in handling data 
 • Employee data scientists: 382 (MTP target)  ➡ 440 (2024 result) 
• DX promotion personnel: 1,200  (MTP target) ➡ 1,588  (2024 result) 
    Connect with customers, 
   create uniquely Yamaha Motor 
  businesses fusing the real and digital  
 worlds, and enhance business efficiency 
 
 Promote global reforms of 
our management platforms 
 Create leaders who can leverage  
digital technologies 
   ⾣  Establish a corporate culture of data-driven business 
  ⾣  Strengthen software development capabilities 
 ⾣ Democratization of generative AI 
  ⾣ Develop 150 leaders who can leverage 
digital technologies by the end of 2027 
 ⾣ Global rollout of democratized data analysis 
⾣ Roll out global templates in Japan, 
North America, Europe, and South America 
Implementation (2025–2027) 
     
  Develop Human 
Resources 
  
 Create the 
Future 
  
 Strengthen 
the Present 
   
  Reform 
 Management 
Platforms 
    DX Promotion 
  Y-DX3
  Y-DX2
   Y-DX1
29
Digital Transformation Strategy In order to achieve sustainable growth, we will utilize information technology (IT), digital technologies and data to 
simplify Company systems and strengthen the competitiveness of our core and strategic businesses. We will move into 
the implementation stage of the Yamaha Motor to the Next Stage project to enhance brand value through new real-
world and digital experiences, services, and products, and create lifelong Yamaha Motor fans. This will lead to the next 
stage of growth. 
Promotion Structure for Digital 
Transformation 
Using Digital Transformation to Reform 
Management Platforms (Y-DX1) 
Using Digital Transformation to Provide 
Customer Value (Y-DX2/Y-DX-3) 
Developing DX Promotion Personnel 
Digital transformation (DX) is positioned as a source of business 
growth and competitiveness, with the Board of Directors responsible 
for overseeing related policies and progress. This governance 
structure enables the Board to continuously review the direction 
and outcomes of digital transformation initiatives as part of its 
oversight responsibilities. 
 At the executive management level, the DX Promotion Committee, 
established under the Management Committee, is responsible for 
translating the digital transformation strategy into concrete 
initiatives and making relevant investment decisions. Led by the 
executive officer responsible for IT, the committee centrally 
manages prioritization and decision-making regarding Companywide 
initiatives, thereby ensuring alignment between digital transformation 
strategy and investment. 
 The executive officer in charge of technology is responsible for 
executing initiatives based on these decisions. We reorganized our 
digital transformation promotion structure so that from fiscal 2026 
responsibility rests with the executive officer in charge of technology, 
enabling closer integration of digital transformation with our product, 
technology, and business strategies. This will strengthen both our 
execution capabilities and governance functions for translating 
digital transformation into business value (DX2/DX3). 
The aim of Y-DX1 is to reform management platforms. We have set 
out to visualize global operations under a single standard, thereby 
improving key management indicators such as return on assets 
(ROA), inventory levels, and the cash conversion cycle (CCC). The 
rollout of a standardized system is progressing across Japan, North 
America, Europe, South America, and Australia. The management 
dashboard, which leverages centralized integrated enterprise data 
from this system, has begun to serve as a foundation for decision-
making at Management Committee meetings. Going forward, we 
will make greater use of operational data and AI to rapidly identify 
changes in supply and demand, inventory levels, and the investment 
return cycle, enabling timely management actions that directly 
contribute to profitability. In addition, Asia has been identified as a 
priority region for expansion under the next medium-term 
management plan. As such, we will continue our efforts to 
integrate global operations under a single management platform. 
Our digital transformation initiatives are aimed at enhancing 
medium- to long-term business profitability by delivering value 
through the integration of digital and real-world experiences, with 
the enhancement of connections with customers as a starting 
point. As of the end of 2025, the number of Yamaha Motor ID 
registrants had grown to 10.9 million. Through the process of 
acquiring registrants, we identified opportunities to further 
enhance the quality of the customer experience in service delivery. 
Based on these insights, we have developed a service platform, 
and are continuing to improve customer-facing applications and 
other touchpoints across our businesses. We are also working to 
improve the efficiency of our business processes. For software-
defined vehicles (SDVs) and AI, we are focusing our efforts on areas 
that directly contribute to profitability, such as customer experience 
and maintenance efficiency, while taking into account product 
characteristics that differ from those of standard four-wheeled 
passenger vehicles. We will use the data obtained through customer 
connections to enhance products and expand services, fostering 
lifelong customer relationships through continuous improvements 
in user experience and customer experience, which will help 
support stable business growth. 
To continuously improve productivity and create customer value 
through the practical application of digital technologies, we are 
advancing two initiatives: increasing the number of DX promotion 
personnel and developing core DX talent. In fiscal 2025, a cumulative 
total of 3,601 employees participated in data utilization training 
programs, and the number of employees using generative AI for 
information gathering and analytical support had steadily 
increased to 3,865 globally. We will accelerate the safe and 
effective use of AI by clarifying our AI utilization policy, expanding 
Companywide AI literacy training, developing specialized skills, and 
conducting rapid technology validation. By applying the resources 
generated through operational efficiency improvements and the 
skills developed through our digital transformation initiatives to 
customer-facing services and other value-creation activities, we 
will enhance corporate value over the long term. 

[Page 31]
Companywide undertaking through “Next Kando Actions” 
encouraging employees to take initiative 
Human Capital Management Policy 
Improve global engagement: Positive score of 80 % or higher 
Mission
Challenge & Growth
Provide employees of all stripes with opportunities to take on challenges! 
Spur growth of the individual as well as the company with uniquely 
Yamaha Motor challenges! 
Talent Management Specialist Development
Monozukuri Diversity, Equity, Inclusion
Expand the global 
training program to align 
with each talent’s career 
development plan 
Aim for factory management 
centered on production 
personnel and provide 
diverse career paths 
and growth opportunities 
Global ratio of women 
managers 
11% in 2024 
▼
13 % in 2027 
Creating an environment where employees can work safely and maintain good health
65 %
Engagement
71 %
Inclusion
72 %
Intention to stay
40 %
Survey follow-up
Outcome Indicators 
Driver Indicators 
Listen and Respond 
Listen to feedback 
from the workplace 
and respond 
appropriately 
according to one’s role 
Communicate 
Communicate 
intentions and 
background in 
language that is 
easy for others 
to understand 
Management Cycle 
Drive change by sharing policies (communicate) 
and gathering frontline feedback (listen and respond) 
Supportive work 
environment 70 %
Career 57 %
Relationship building 
and psychological safety 71 %
Corporate 
culture 
61 %
Management cycle 
(management) 
Management cycle 
(supervisors) 
Connection to strategy and 
challenge (employees) 
54 %
70 %
67 %
30
Basic Approach 
Governance 
Challenge & Growth in Medium-Term 
Management Plan (2025–2027) 
Increasing Global Engagement 
Human Resources Strategy The vitality of our workforce is a critical factor in achieving our Corporate Mission to be a Kando Creating Company, which is why 
we have made employee engagement a key performance indicator. We also promote diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I) as well 
as talent development as initiatives for improving engagement. 
In its global business operations, the Yamaha Motor 
Group is striving to create an organizational structure 
with the agility required to respond to changing and 
evolving market needs. We believe that if individuals 
and the Company share ambitious goals and work 
together to bring about not just business growth but 
also personal growth, we can continue to create 
Kando. Guided by this belief, we have defined the 
following attributes we seek in our employees. 
To further strengthen governance and optimize our 
strategies for human capital management, we have 
established a Human Capital Management Committee 
chaired by the Chief General Manager of the Human 
Resources & General Affairs Center. The committee 
brings together executive officers and heads of 
overseas operations to actively discuss key human 
capital issues across the Group’s global operations, 
such as implementing human resources investment 
strategies, increasing employee engagement, and 
promoting diversity. We have also established a Talent 
Management Committee, chaired by the Chief General 
Manager of the Human Resources & General Affairs 
Center, to review the development plans, 
assignments, and development progress of 
management candidates across the Group. Through 
these efforts, we will increase employees’ autonomy 
regarding careers and transparency in their future 
career paths. 
Premised on our fundamental belief that all corporate activities begin with 
people, we aim to create conditions in which diverse talent can be eager 
and inspired to take on ambitious goals without fear of failure, thus 
reinforcing their own growth as they pave the way for Yamaha Motor’s 
growth and future in a rapidly changing operating environment. To achieve 
this objective, the Medium-Term Management Plan that started in fiscal 
2025 includes a mission statement for human resources of “Challenge & 
Growth: Provide employees of all stripes with opportunities to take on 
challenges! Spur growth of the individual as well as the company with 
uniquely Yamaha Motor challenges!” In conjunction with Next Kando 
Actions, an initiative focused on self-directed employee activities that will 
lead to the creation of new forms of Kando, we will support the challenges 
and growth of employees throughout the entire Group. 
Guided by our human resources mission statement, 
“Challenge & Growth,” we position employee engagement as 
a key indicator for enhancing corporate value. Using the 
results of our annual engagement survey as a reference, we 
review the state of each company and organization as we 
work Groupwide to create an environment where people can 
take on more of the diverse challenges that are unique to 
Yamaha Motor. 
 Under the Medium-Term Management Plan that 
commenced in fiscal 2025, we have set a shared global goal  
of maintaining a positive score of 80% or higher for engagement. 
In fiscal 2025, the score was 82% globally and 65% for 
Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. We are therefore strengthening 
initiatives at the parent company. 
 Employee engagement scores at the parent company 
have steadily improved through continuous initiatives since 
2020, and these efforts have become firmly embedded 
across the Company and at individual workplaces. To drive 
further improvement, we revised certain survey questions to 
make strengths and challenges easier to identify. We also 
developed a workplace diagnostic map that provides a clear 
overall picture of workplace conditions and have begun using 
it internally. Building on our strengths—a supportive work 
environment and a high level of psychological safety in the 
workplace and with supervisors—we are advancing initiatives 
centered on the three key drivers on the following page (p. 31). 
 In alignment with our business strategy, we 
implement a human resources strategy to effectively 
recruit, develop, evaluate, reward, and assign 
employees who embody these attributes. 
1   Human resources who strive independently and 
autonomously to develop their personal value. 
2   Human resources who are able to act with a focus on 
teamwork. 
3   Human resources who will contribute to the value of 
the Yamaha Motor brand. 
Engagement Score 
*  Calculated by dividing the total engagement scores of all companies by the number of companies.  
Through 2024, data covered Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. and 12 major overseas subsidiaries. In 2025, the scope was expanded to 
include all subsidiaries with 500 or more employees, bringing the total to 34 companies. 
Workplace Diagnostic Map 
Scope of Coverage 2023 2024 2025 
Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. 61% 63% 65%
Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. and Group companies* 79% 82% 82%

[Page 32]
31
Since 2022, we have continued to hold “Revs Meetings” as a forum for direct 
dialogue between management and employees. In 2025, approximately 
1,400 employees and 11 members of senior management engaged in 
dialogue across business areas and career levels. By better understanding 
management’s thinking and the background to the challenges we are taking 
on, employees are encouraged to take ownership of the Company’s direction 
and translate understanding into self-directed action. These meetings also 
enable management to incorporate direct feedback from the workplace into 
decision-making, helping strengthen the management cycle from 
communication of policies through to their execution. 
We will review and expand our global human resources database for managerial and higher 
positions (which has been in place for some time), to enable us to manage and utilize more 
accurate, up-to-date data and to discuss and decide on high-quality placement and development. 
Talent  
Visibility
The Talent Management Committee will identify high-potential candidates for future 
management positions, monitor the training status of each candidate, and discuss and decide on 
issues and countermeasures for future training. 
Talent  
Review
We will create a process for early selection and systematic development of our next generation 
of management personnel. Specifically, we will prepare individual career plans for selected 
candidates, and conduct off-the-job training (mentoring, coaching, global selection training, and 
external training) according to each individual’s career plan, experience, and skill set, and 
on-the-job training that incorporates challenging assignments. 
Identification 
and 
Development
 We believe that by using employee engagement as a key indicator for continuous 
improvement, we can increase the number of employees who take on challenges proactively, 
thereby strengthening business execution and adaptability to change and ultimately enhancing 
medium- to long-term corporate value through the sustained creation of Kando. 
Human Resources Strategy 
We will promote the early discovery of capable human resources, consideration of their career 
plans, and their development and assignment, regardless of gender, age, nationality, place of 
origin or other such attributes. Although we have been preparing successors for global core 
positions, we believe that going forward we must develop our next generation of management 
personnel more strategically and systematically, in line with each individual’s career plan. 
Specific measures are as follows. 
Talent Management 
Global Selective Training Participants 
Based on the Yamaha Motor Group Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) Policy, we have 
identified five priority areas—gender, race/
ethnicity/nationality/place of origin, disability, 
age, and LGBTQ+—and are advancing initiatives 
in each of these areas. 
 In particular, we have identified the advancement 
of women as a key priority within our gender-
related initiatives and have set a Groupwide 
target of increasing the proportion of women 
in management positions to 13% by 2027. To 
support the achievement of this target, Yamaha 
Motor’s headquarters in Japan introduced new career development training programs for women 
managers, women identified as management candidates, and their supervisors. This training helps 
participants identify and articulate their strengths and values and develop concrete career 
plans through dialogue with their supervisors, thereby deepening their understanding of 
expected roles and strengthening their willingness to take on new challenges. 
 We also participate in a cross-Group mentoring program in which executive officers serve as 
mentors and women general managers participate as mentees, providing opportunities to learn 
from different perspectives and experiences across organizations. Through these initiatives, we 
create opportunities for growth and support the development of lasting professional networks, 
helping women leaders grow and thrive in their careers. We will continue to steadily implement 
these initiatives to achieve our target. 
Promoting DE&I 
Women in Management (%)
Scope of Coverage 2023 2024 2025
Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. 3.7 3.8 3.7
Group Companies in Japan 5.5 6.5 8.0
North America 19.5 20.3 22.8
Europe 16.4 20.5 16.4
Asia 14.3 16.0 17.1
Other 17.7 19.0 22.9
Total 11.1 12.1 12.9
Selective Training 2023 2024 2025
Global Executive Program* − 18 −
Yamaha Business School Global* 24 − 24
Regional Development Program 71 − 47
Yamaha Business School Junior 25 25 25
*  The Global Executive Program 
and Yamaha Business School 
Global are held every other 
year. 
Enhancing Understanding of the Company’s Direction and Future Vision Key Driver 1
Creating a Workplace That Enables Growth and FulfillmentKey Driver 2
Supporting Self-Directed Career Development Key Driver 3
We are enhancing our human resources systems to encourage employees to take on challenges proactively 
through evaluation and compensation based on roles and performance. Under the new personnel system for 
core employees introduced in 2024, we shifted to role-based evaluation and compensation and clarified the 
responsibilities of “Line Management,” who are responsible for organizational management, and “Strategy 
Leads,” who drive projects in line with business strategy. Under the new personnel system for general employees 
introduced in 2025, we eliminated job-category distinctions and length of employment requirements for 
promotion eligibility, enabling compensation and advancement based on performance. Through these initiatives, 
employees gain a clearer understanding of their roles and experience growth and work fulfillment by taking on 
challenges proactively and achieving meaningful results. This in turn strengthens our talent foundation that 
supports business execution. 
For individuals and the Company to continue growing together, it is important that each employee proactively 
shapes their own career path, understands the Company’s direction, and takes action toward achieving their 
career goals. To support this process, employees and their supervisors engage in career development discussions, 
and we continue to expand training programs tailored to employees’ career stages and development needs. 
According to an internal survey, 72% of employees across the Company responded that career discussions 
helped align expectations regarding their career direction with their supervisors. We also encourage the use of 
our internal job posting program (“Self-Career Challenge”) and “internal side-job” opportunities as ways for 
employees to pursue the careers they envision. In 2025, 110 employees took on new assignments or “internal 
side-job” opportunities through these programs. 

[Page 33]
Land Mobility
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
Forecast
1,571.1 1,578.1 1,680.0
38.5 37.1 45.0
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
Forecast
126.5 123.5 134.0
-22.7 -14.8 -7.0
Motorcycles SPV Motorcycles SPV
( ¥ billion) ( ¥ billion) 
Fiscal
2025
Motorcycles for
emerging markets
73.8%
SPV
2.3%
Motorcycles for
developed markets
23.9%
32
Strategies by Business 
Land Mobility 
The Land Mobility segment primarily comprises the Motorcycles business 
and the Smart Power Vehicle (SPV) business, which covers products 
including electrically power-assisted bicycles (eBikes), e-Kits (drive units 
and components for eBikes), and electric drive units for wheelchairs. It has 
been a core segment since Yamaha Motor was established. Our Land 
Mobility product lineup covers a wide range of mobility solutions—from 
practical daily transportation and recreation to commercial use and 
motorsports. Through development and sales strategies tailored to the 
characteristics and needs of each market, we deliver global convenience 
and value in mobility experiences. 
 In 2025, although Motorcycles business sales increased in Japan, 
overall sales volume in developed markets decreased slightly due to lower 
demand in Europe and the United States. Overall sales in emerging 
markets (ASEAN, South Asia, and Latin America) remained on par with the 
previous year, backed by strong performance in Indonesia, the Philippines, 
and Thailand, despite a decline in sales in Vietnam due to the impact of 
floods. Operating profit decreased due to rising costs and the impact of 
U.S. tariffs. SPV business sales decreased due to a decline in sales volume, 
but operating loss improved, reflecting the absence of inventory write-
downs and an impairment loss on non-current assets recorded in the 
previous year. As a result, revenue in the Land Mobility segment increased 
¥5.6 billion (0.3%) year on year to ¥1,615.1 billion, and operating profit 
increased ¥4.9 billion (4.7%) year on year to ¥108.7 billion. 
 In recent years, changes in customer awareness of environment and 
lifestyle issues, along with stricter environmental regulations, have 
significantly altered the business landscape. Amid these changes, Land 
Mobility will continue to flexibly respond by creating synergies across 
businesses and delivering new forms of Kando to the world through 
Yamaha Motor’s unique mobility solutions. 
Business Vision   Bringing joy into mobility and fun into holidays together with  
our stakeholders 
We have set forth a long-term business vision for 2030, the basis of which is our desire to bring joy to mobility and fun to holidays together 
with customers, dealers, suppliers, and others by creating products with Yamaha Motor’s unique Monozukuri. 
Market Environment 
SPV
 Main Markets  Japan  Europe  North America
Business Overview 
Main Competitors 
(e-Kits) BOSCH, SHIMANO, DJI  
(CBU eBikes) PANASONIC, BRIDGESTONE  
(JW) ALBER
The Japanese market remained firm, and while the 
European market has emerged from an inventory 
adjustment phase, competition intensified due to the 
growing presence of Chinese manufacturers. In 2026, we 
will work to generate synergies with Yamaha Motor eBike 
Systems GmbH (YMESG) in the e-Kit business. 
Motorcycles for Developed Markets
  Main Markets  Japan  Europe  North America
Main Competitors 
HONDA, SUZUKI, KAWASAKI, HARLEY-DAVIDSON,  
BMW, DUCATI, TRIUMPH, KTM, APRILIA, PIAGGIO,  
KYMCO, CFMOTO, VOGE, ZONTES 
In response to changes  
in our operating environment  
in 2025, including stricter  
emissions standards in  
Europe, the impact of U.S.  
tariffs, and new emissions  
standards in Japan for  
50cc models, we are  
working to differentiate  
ourselves from competitors  
and enhance profitability by  
introducing high-value-added  
models and ramping up activities  
to cultivate lifelong customers. 
Motorcycles for Emerging Markets
  Main Markets  ASEAN  South Asia  Latin America
Main Competitors 
HONDA, SUZUKI, KAWASAKI, HERO, BAJAJ, ROYAL ENFIELD
In 2025, despite growing 
price-consciousness in 
Indonesia, Yamaha Motor 
maintained market share 
in its target category, and 
demand remained 
generally firm in other 
countries, including India, 
where demand increased 
due to a tax cut in the 
second half of the year. 
Under moderate growth 
conditions in 2026, we will maintain our premium model 
segment strategy and optimize supply. 
Yasutaka Suzuki 
Senior Executive Officer, 
Chief General Manager of  
Land Mobility Business Operations 
Revenue Breakdown by  
Main Product Category 
Revenue Operating Profit 
Aerox α
Drive unit 
(e-Kit)
eBikes Electric power units 
for wheelchairs 
PAS CRAIG ALLEY
MT-09 Y-AMT ABS

[Page 34]
33
Strategies by Business
Review of Fiscal 2025 
Future Policies and  
Key Measures
Although sales decreased in developed markets due to a decline in 
demand, we accurately captured robust demand for motorcycles 
in emerging markets, particularly Indonesia and the Philippines, 
maintaining sales volume while continuing strategic investments 
for future growth. 
 Revenue increased ¥7.0 billion (0.4%) year on year to ¥1,578.1 
billion. However, due to the impact of U.S. tariffs, rising procurement 
costs, and increased R&D and SG&A expenses, operating profit 
decreased ¥3.0 billion (2.3%) year on year to ¥123.5 billion.  
To offset headwinds in the operating environment, we worked to 
maintain our revenue base through price adjustments and 
initiatives to increase the sales ratio of premium models in 
growth markets. In terms of products and strategy, we steadily 
implemented our premium model segment strategy and measures 
for electrification, including the announcement of models that 
broaden the joy of riding, such as a Yamaha Electric Continuously 
Variable Transmission (YECVT) model and the XSR155, as well as 
two electric scooter models for the Indian market. 
From 2026 onward, we will work to improve 
profitability in the Motorcycles business by 
appropriately controlling business costs in 
light of changes in our operating environment 
and by strengthening customer touchpoints. 
Through the cultivation of lifelong customer 
relationships, we will build a stable revenue 
base for the future. 
 We will work to increase sales in emerging 
markets by taking advantage of the 
opportunities presented by expanding demand 
in the Philippines, India, and other growth 
markets, and the normalization of supply in 
Vietnam, as we enhance our lineup centered 
on premium models. In developed markets, 
despite indications of cooling demand, we 
will work to expand sales by focusing on 
high-value-added models, where we have an 
advantage. For electric vehicles, we will 
engage in both in-house platform development 
and external collaborations to roll out 
products tailored to market characteristics. 
This will enable us to address environmental 
concerns and enhance brand value, leading 
to strengthened competitiveness in the 
medium to long term. 
Motorcycles
Strengths 
•  Diverse and global product lineup that brings together high performance and quality based on the 
core competencies we have cultivated 
•  Established global brand position for motorcycles 
•  Strong presence in the premium segment in emerging markets 
•  High-quality worldwide sales network 
Opportunities 
•  Expansion of upper-middle-income market in ASEAN and other emerging markets 
•  Evolution of marketing through digital technologies 
•  Enhancing support for safer riding based on technologies 
Risks 
•  Prolonged pressure on product supply networks due to geopolitical risks 
•  Evolution of environmental regulations in each country 
•  Intensifying trade friction and the spread of protectionism 
•  Competitors’ strategies aiming to emulate successful models in the premium segment 
Issues •  Responding to profitability pressures from rising costs of raw materials, labor, logistics, and energy 
•  Securing sources of revenue beyond product sales in mature markets 
Progress on Medium-Term Management Plan Key Themes 
Inputs
R&D Expenses 1.2x vs. previous plan Capital Expenditure 1.4x vs. previous plan New Models At least 20 models
Business KPI Targets for 2027
Revenue Growth CAGR: 6% range ROS 10% range* ROIC Mid-20% range*
* Before headquarters corporate expense allocations 
Key Themes Quantitative Progress Qualitative Progress 
Emerging 
markets 
Recover market share with products that are attractive to the 
increasingly important Gen Z demographic 
Indonesia:  Create emotional value that fosters the desire to own 
and deepens ties with customers 
Philippines:  Introduce reward programs to offer consistent, 
premium experiences 
India:  Raise customer engagement by rolling out marketing 
initiatives targeting Gen Z and ramping up experiential events 
•  Premium models sales 
volume: –5% (YoY) 
•  Share of premium model 
segment: +0.5 pts (YoY) 
Indonesia:  Partnered with influencers popular among Gen Z as brand ambassadors to 
cultivate an aspirational image and held MotoGP rider meet-and-greet events 
exclusively for reward program members 
Philippines:  Held special touring events for high-tier reward program members 
India:  Held Blue Streaks, events promoting the joy of riding and community building, and 
Track Day, a circuit event for experiencing Yamaha Motor’s motorsports performance 
firsthand 
Developed 
markets 
Raise market presence and drive the brand for the whole 
Motorcycles business 
•  Launch new models, expand sales of Yamaha Automated Manual 
Transmission (Y-AMT) models, and attract new customers 
•  Expand mechanisms for making us the preferred choice in related 
businesses 
•  Strengthen customer touchpoints 
•  Launch of two TRACER 
models with Y-AMT 
•  Sales ratio of Y-AMT-
equipped units among 
applicable models: +22.5 pts 
(YoY) 
•  Extended the lineup of models offering Y-AMT beyond the MT series to include the TRACER 
series to appeal to a wider range of customers with new value 
•  Accelerated uptake in each region in collaboration with the Yamaha Motor Finance 
Corporation Group, including through improvements to financing functions in sales systems 
used at selected dealers on a trial basis 
•  Enhanced experiential value through the bLU cRU program. Held the 2025 BLU CRU YZ 
World SuperFinale for youth motocross talent in the United States, attracting riders from 
around the world. 
Strengthening 
marketing 
capabilities 
Build strong ties with customers by combining real and digital 
experiences 
•  Conduct marketing that combines real and digital experiences 
•  Deliver personalized customer experiences 
•  Further improve customer touchpoint quality 
•  Number of countries with 
customer reward programs:  
1 (Philippines) 
•  Number of Yamaha Motor ID 
registrants: 8.2 million 
(cumulative from 2020) 
•  Number of downloads of 
Y-TRAC Rev app: 1,120 
•  Upgraded the Y-Connect app and promoted the Yamaha Motor On customer engagement 
platform
•  Provided real-world experiences including “We Are Aerox Society” to enhance user 
interactions and community, and the Fazzio Youth Festival to develop affinity with Gen Z 
•  Supported rider proficiency by linking the YZF-R9 supersport model with the Y-TRAC Rev 
app, which offers riding data analysis and route visualization 
Electric 
motorcycles 
Pursue in-house platform development and external 
collaborations 
•  Develop in-house platforms 
•  Collaborate with external partners 
Launch of two new models
•  Launched the CUXiE in Taiwan (manufactured by Gogoro Inc.) 
•  Launched the JOG E in Japan (manufactured by Honda Motor Co., Ltd.) 
•  Announced the Aerox E (manufactured in-house) and EC-06 (manufactured by River 
Mobility Private Limited) in India 
•  Exhibited the YE-01 electric motocross prototype at EICMA (jointly developed with Electric 
Motion SAS) 

[Page 35]
34
Strategies by Business
Review of Fiscal 2025 
Future Policies and Key Measures
In the SPV business (electrically power-assisted bicycles, e-Kits, and electric wheelchairs), 
revenue decreased ¥1.4 billion (3.7%) year on year to ¥37.1 billion, with an operating loss of 
¥14.8 billion, down from an operating loss of ¥22.7 billion in the previous fiscal year. Revenue 
decreased due to a decline in sales volume following our withdrawal from the overseas complete 
build-up (CBU) eBike business, while on a positive note operating loss decreased due to lower 
SG&A expenses and the absence of an impairment loss on non-current assets and other 
expenses recorded in the previous fiscal year. 
 In the domestic electrically power-assisted bicycle market, mainstay 
power assist system (PAS) models and new models performed well. 
Overseas, we acquired the bicycle drive unit (e-Kit) business subsidiary 
of German automotive parts manufacturer Brose in 2025, and 
established a new company in Germany called Yamaha Motor eBike 
Systems GmbH (YMESG). The acquisition increased sales volume, 
but our immediate focus is on rapid post-merger integration. By 
establishing a development base in Europe, the largest market for 
this category, and leveraging the network acquired from Brose, we 
aim to strengthen our market presence in the region. 
In the SPV business, we will precisely monitor the various phases of market recovery as we 
accelerate initiatives to achieve the Medium-Term Management Plan. We expect an increase in 
revenue in 2026 from sales growth both in and outside Japan, and will improve earnings by 
further streamlining non-current assets. We will also take steady steps to establish an 
organizational structure that will generate synergies with YMESG, which has been operating 
since August 2025. 
 Our focus in 2026 is on strengthening the organizational capabilities that support the 
sustainable growth of our business. We will continue to promote initiatives to improve 
profitability through top-line growth, including strengthening our sales strategy, balanced with 
appropriate cost control. 
 For electrically power-assisted bicycles, we aim to expand our market share in Japan and 
improve profitability on a consolidated basis. We will improve sales efficiency and work to add 
more value to our products and services, as well as differentiate ourselves from competitors. 
Doing so will establish a foundation for sustainable growth. For overseas e-Kits, we aim to 
expand our customer base by ramping up our sales strategy and introducing new drive units. 
We will also review our cost structure and logistics processes to further strengthen our 
competitiveness. 
 For electric wheelchairs, we will expand sales overseas as we seek to establish a foundation 
for sustainable growth. 
 We will further establish competitive advantages in the SPV business by providing quality 
and services that exceed customer expectations, and generate synergy through collaboration 
with YMESG, thereby contributing to greater corporate value over the medium to long term. 
Strengths 
•  Customer base built on trust in Yamaha Motor technology and products 
•  Pedigree of constantly pioneering new markets by creating mobility solutions 
•  Development base for e-Kits in Europe, a major market 
•  Extensive sales and service network in Europe 
Opportunities 
•  Addressing the needs of an aging society (for mobility and social participation) 
•  Rising environmental awareness and health consciousness 
•  Ongoing infrastructure development for electric mobility 
Risks 
•  Prolonged pressure on product supply networks due to geopolitical risks 
•  Decline in consumer spending due to rising prices and economic downturns 
•  Increased competition due to the entry of e-Kit manufacturers from emerging markets 
including China 
•  Soaring logistics costs 
Issues 
•  Responding to profitability pressures from rising costs of raw materials, labor, logistics, and energy 
•  Establishing a foundation for B2B businesses (sales, after-sales service, etc.) 
•  Generating synergies with YMESG (established in Germany in 2025) 
SPV 
Key Themes Progress
Optimize 
resource 
allocation
Review focus areas and optimize resource 
allocation 
•  Restructure the overseas finished Yamaha eBike 
business and concentrate on the domestic market 
•  Concentrate resources on the e-Kit business 
•  6% year-on-year increase in sales of complete 
build-up (CBU) eBikes in 2025 
•  Acquired the e-Kit subsidiary of Brose and 
established YMESG 
e-Kits 
Capitalize on market recovery to restore revenue 
and ROIC 
•  Establish unique competitive advantages through  
a thorough customer-centric approach 
•  Supply chain and engineering chain reforms 
•  Innovate services for end users, dealerships, and 
customers to whom we supply products 
•  Established an e-Kit development base and 
conducted post-merger integration in Europe,  
a major market 
•  Strengthened after-sales service in Europe 
leveraging the network acquired from Brose 
•  Reorganized drive unit production layout by 
integrating production bases in Taiwan 
Progress on Medium-Term Management Plan Key Themes 
Inputs
R&D
Expenses 
1.6x 
vs. previous plan 
Capital 
Expenditure
0.6x 
vs. previous plan 
Investment and 
Financing Effective use of M&A 
Business KPI Targets for 2027
Revenue 
Growth CAGR: 15% range ROS 8% range* ROIC 18% range*
* Before headquarters corporate expense allocations 


[Page 36]
Marine Products
537.7 527.6 556.0 87.8
53.6
61.0
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
Forecast
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
Forecast
(¥ billion) (¥ billion) 
Outboard motors
(Other regions)
22.2%
Personal watercraft,
boats, and others 
34.6%
Outboard motors 
(North America
and Europe)
43.2%
Fiscal
2025
35
Marine Products 
Strategies by Business
The Marine Products business offers a diverse product lineup, including 
outboard motors, personal watercraft, boats, fishing boats, and utility 
boats, meeting a wide range of needs from recreational to commercial use. 
This segment accounts for about 20% of the Company’s consolidated 
revenue but contributes about 40% of operating profit, making it one of 
the Company’s largest contributors to operating profit. Our flagship 
product—outboard motors—has secured a global leadership position 
backed by a leading market share worldwide and exceptional reliability. 
Outboard motors are used for leisure purposes across North America and 
Europe, as well as for fishing and tourism. As such, our business meets the 
diverse needs of various customers around the world. With the aim of 
maximizing customers’ experiential value, under the Medium-Term 
Management Plan we are working to develop an attractive product lineup 
and strengthen integration across the value chain as a comprehensive 
marine product manufacturer. 
 Achieving carbon neutrality is also a medium- to long-term challenge; 
accordingly, we are promoting the development of electric propulsion 
systems and hydrogen engines under our multi-pathway approach. 
 Through these activities, we are working to realize our business vision, 
further enhancing the value of the Yamaha Motor brand and creating 
social value through the technological capabilities we have cultivated as a 
comprehensive marine product manufacturer. 
Market Environment 
The global market size 
remains stable at 
approximately 800,000 to 
900,000 units annually, 
with gradually increasing 
demand for large models 
of 150 horsepower and 
above. We will respond to 
market needs by 
strengthening our large-
model lineup and raising 
production capacity. 
Additionally, by expanding 
related product offerings, 
we aim to enhance 
customers’ experiential 
value as a comprehensive 
marine product company. 
Business Overview 
Although total demand in 2025 declined due to rising 
interest rates and inflation, a gradual recovery is 
anticipated going forward. Usage has diversified beyond 
traditional single-occupant models to include family-
oriented options and models designed for other 
recreational purposes. We plan to introduce models 
based on a new platform designed to meet these 
evolving needs. 
In the domestic market, we offer high-value-added 
products for a wide range of uses including pleasure boats 
and fishing vessels. With Sea-Style, our membership-based 
rental boat club, we are strengthening our development 
of services aligned with customer preferences. 
FX Cruiser HO AR250
F350B
HARMO
Tatsuya Nozaki 
Executive Officer, 
Chief General Manager of  
Marine Business Operations 
Revenue Breakdown by  
Main Product Category 
Revenue Operating Profit 
Business Vision   A Business for a Reliable and Rich Marine Life:  
Toward further Increasing the Value of the Ocean 
With a history spanning over 60 years, the Marine Products business, built on a foundation of reliability as a comprehensive marine product 
manufacturer, creates Kando by further enhancing the value that people derive from the ocean. We will strengthen our lineup of large 
outboard motors and create greater customer value by pursuing the integrated boat business. 
Main Competitors 
MERCURY, SUZUKI, HONDA, TOHATSU
Main Competitors 
BRP, KAWASAKI 
Main Competitors 
YANMAR, TOYOTA, SUZUKI  
Boats
 Main Markets  Japan  United States  Europe 
Personal Watercraft
  Main Markets  United States   Rest of World  
 Outboard Motors 
 Main Markets  North America  Europe  Japan  Rest of World  

[Page 37]
36
Strategies by Business
Review of Fiscal 2025
In fiscal 2025, the business environment remained challenging due to factors including global 
economic uncertainty, sluggish demand in the North American market, and the impact of tariffs. 
Under these conditions, we steadily advanced initiatives for future growth. In the outboard 
motors business, although demand remained weak in the key U.S. market, we captured demand 
elsewhere, including regions that showed signs of having bottomed out as well as in emerging 
markets. As a result, global sales increased from the previous year. In the personal watercraft 
business, despite worsening market conditions, positive market reception of the new JetBlaster 
products due to their agile handling and ease of use enabled us to attract entry-level customers. 
In addition, Wireless Station, a product created through collaborative development in Japan and 
the United States (representing a break from our usual Japan-led approach), received strong 
recognition for its technologies that enhance both operational freedom and safety while 
boating. While revising some plans in response to the changing business environment, we 
continued to invest in development, making 2025 a year of reinforcing the foundation that 
supports our competitive advantages over the medium to long term. 
Strengths 
•  Superior product reliability 
•  Integrated business strengths supported by operations in a wide-range of business fields and 
an expansive product lineup 
•  Sales and service capabilities spanning the global market 
•  Technology and expertise cultivated in Land Mobility and other businesses that can be applied 
to the Marine Products business 
Opportunities 
•  Demand recovery driven by easing inflation and declining interest rates 
•  Growing demand for personal watercraft as their uses continue to diversify 
•  Growing global demand for large outboard motors 
Risks 
•  Dramatic market shifts stemming from climate change, rapid technological innovation, or 
other factors 
•  Sudden changes in the global economy, exchange rates, and regulations, including additional 
U.S. tariffs 
•  Rising labor and raw material costs 
•  Supply chain disruptions and rising logistics costs due to geopolitical risks 
Issues •  Accelerating new product development 
•  Strengthening advanced technology development 
Future Policies and Key Measures 
The operating environment of the Marine Products business is expected to remain challenging 
in 2026 and beyond due to factors such as tariff policies and changes in market structure. 
Guided by the theme of “Co-Creation” that underpins Medium-Term Management Plan (2025–
2027), we will continue to pursue our policy of integrating our various assets, including in 
products, technologies, services, and Monozukuri, and will seek to collaborate with other 
companies and across business fields to contribute to customers and society. We will also focus 
on improving profitability and reinforcing our business structure as key issues for building a 
resilient business foundation that can withstand changes in the operating environment. 
 Specifically, in the outboard motors business we will continue developing products that precisely 
meet market needs in the premium large outboard motors segment, where we expect growth in 
demand. We will also ramp up marketing measures in emerging markets and other regions 
where our performance was strong in 2025, with the aim of maximizing sales opportunities. 
 Furthermore, through the establishment of Yamaha Marine Co., Ltd. we will strengthen 
collaboration in the development and manufacture 
of small- and medium-sized outboard motors  
and boats, thereby enhancing manufacturing 
competitiveness and profitability. Although we face 
a difficult business environment in the short term, 
we will pursue sustainable improvement in corporate 
value through technology development, business 
structure reforms, and stronger partnerships, all  
with a view to achieving growth over the medium  
to long term. 
Key Themes Progress
Strengthen the 
large and 
premium outboard 
motors categories 
Renew product lineup and develop products that 
meet market needs 
Increase production capacity to meet global 
demand 
•  Large outboard motors: Expanded the lineup for 
models of 150 horsepower and above and enhanced 
core performance as planned 
•  Personal watercraft: Introduced a new platform model 
•  Completed production capacity increase (+15% vs. 2024) 
Enhance 
customer 
experience value
Evolve into an integrated boat business 
•  Expand related products 
•  Broaden the scope of business across the entire 
marine products ecosystem 
•  Introduced the Helm Master EX Wireless Station 
(Wireless Controller with an Integrated Man Overboard 
System), which won an IBEX Innovation Award 
•  Established Yamaha Motor Connected Innovation 
N.V. in Finland to promote business in the connected 
and shared economy domains 
Establish global 
collaboration and 
business 
sustainability within 
the organization 
Optimize global development functions 
•  Strengthen R&D functions; accelerate development 
•  Established a marine products testing facility in 
Europe 
•  Established Yamaha Marine Co., Ltd. (through the 
merger of Yamaha Kumamoto Products Co., Ltd. and 
Yamaha Amakusa Manufacturing Co., Ltd.) 
Initiatives for 
social issues 
Develop and sell carbon-neutral products under a 
multi-pathway policy 
•  Advanced development fields 
•  Mass production and sales expansion fields 
•  Conducted technology demonstration tests using 
hydrogen outboard motors on actual boats 
•  Developed eco-friendly fiber-reinforced plastic and 
exhibited it at the Japan International Boat Show 
and other events 
•  Expanded mangrove planting in Indonesia 
Marine Products 
Progress on Medium-Term Management Plan Key Themes 
Inputs
R&D
Expenses 
1.7x 
vs. previous plan 
Capital 
Expenditure
1.8x 
vs. previous plan 
Investment in 
Human Capital
North America: 1.3x 
Japan: 1.1x
Business KPI Targets for 2027
Revenue 
Growth CAGR: 8% range ROS Mid-20% range* ROIC 30% range*
* Before headquarters corporate expense allocations 

[Page 38]
Outdoor Land Vehicle
179.5
148.5 160.0
17.4
39.8
24.0
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
Forecast
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
Forecast
(¥ billion) (¥ billion) 
LSM
37.2%
RV
62.8%
Fiscal
2025
37
Outdoor Land Vehicle 
Strategies by Business
The Outdoor Land Vehicle (OLV) business was established in January 2025 
to drive foundational innovation for long-term growth and to realize 
synergy through the consolidation of businesses primarily targeting the 
U.S. market. OLV comprises the recreational vehicle (RV) and low-speed 
mobility (LSM) businesses, and serves diverse applications from 
commercial use to outdoor leisure. It offers a wide range of off-road 
vehicles, including all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and recreational off-highway 
vehicles (ROVs), as well as low-speed mobility products including golf cars, 
utility vehicles, and (in the United States) low-speed vehicles (LSVs) and 
personal transportation vehicles (PTVs).
 More than 50% of global demand for ATVs comes from the U.S. market, 
where we meet diverse needs with a wide-ranging lineup—from utility 
models to sport types. Similarly, the United States is the primary market 
for ROVs, which continue to see stable demand not only for outdoor leisure 
but also for commercial use, with the overall market showing a growth 
trend. In recent years, demand has been rising noticeably for greater 
versatility and enhanced passenger comfort. Going forward, we will need to 
pay close attention to how customers’ value expectations continue to shift. 
 The U.S. market accounts for nearly 80% of global demand in the LSM 
segment—including golf cars, utility vehicles, LSVs, and PTVs. The 
COVID-19 pandemic accelerated changes in people’s lifestyles, resulting in 
a significant increase in demand for short-distance transportation other 
than at golf courses. 
 Among the many global players in the powersports and personal 
mobility industries, Yamaha Motor is the only brand that offers a full range 
of outdoor recreation products, spanning both land and water use, that 
customers can enjoy throughout their lives. Working in collaboration with 
our Motorcycles, Marine Products and other businesses, we aim to expand 
the market share of the OLV business in the United States. 
Market Environment 
ATVs and ROVs  Main Market
 North America Golf Cars, PTVs, and LSVs  Main Market
 North America
The North American market accounts for the majority of demand. The market has 
returned to the solid growth trend seen prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Many of our 
customers already own or intend to buy other Yamaha Motor products, resulting in a 
significant ripple effect on our other product lines. 
The North American market accounts for the majority of demand. Since the COVID-19 
pandemic, LSM vehicles suitable for use on public roads have seen steady growth. 
Overall demand for golf cars remains stable. We are continuing new model 
development and cost reduction activities. 
Business Overview 
Hiroshi Koike 
Executive Officer, 
Chief General Manager of Outdoor Land 
Vehicle Business Operations 
ATVs and ROVs Golf cars 
Revenue Breakdown by  
Main Product Category 
Revenue Operating Profit 
Business Vision   Create synergy in outdoor leisure through two businesses  
centered on the North American market 
The United States is the main market for our RV and LSM businesses. We will work to introduce fundamental reforms of these businesses and 
generate synergies by collaborating with our other businesses, including the Motorcycles and Marine Products businesses.
Main Competitors POLARIS, BRP, HONDA, KAWASAKI Main Competitors CLUB CAR, E-Z-GO, ICON, STAR, EVOLUTION 
G30Es UMAXGrizzly 700 EPS Wolverine RMAX4

[Page 39]
38
Strategies by Business
Review of Fiscal 2025 
Future Policies and Key Measures 
In fiscal 2025, the OLV business recorded revenue of ¥148.5 billion, with an operating loss of 
¥39.8 billion. Sales declined against a backdrop of shifts in demand trends and the competitive 
landscape in the North American market. In addition, increased R&D expenses and an 
impairment loss on non-current assets resulted in a year-on-year decline in revenue and a 
deterioration in profitability. 
 The OLV business was launched as a new segment in fiscal 2025 with the aim of reinforcing 
the foundation for long-term growth and creating synergies through business consolidation 
centered on the U.S. market. However, in addition to existing competitive challenges, the 
impact of additional tariffs has made a review of the profit structure an even more crucial 
issue. Given these circumstances, 2025 was a year dedicated to laying foundations, including 
initiating profit structure reforms, primarily in the core U.S. market. 
Persistent factors causing uncertainty in the operating environment include demand trends, 
the competitive landscape, and international trade policy developments, particularly in our core 
U.S. market. However, we believe there is ample room for improvement in the medium to long 
term through reviews of our business operations and profit structure. 
 Based on this view, in 2026 we will further advance the business structure reforms we 
initiated in 2025, and cost improvements for in-house and procured components, primarily in the 
United States. We also plan to improve profitability by optimizing resource allocation to 
development and other functions, which will raise the efficiency of business operations. 
 In the short term, we will focus on cost reductions and improved investment efficiency, 
By closely aligning production with sales, we will further optimize inventory turnover in terms 
of months and reduce selling expenses. By concurrently promoting platform development, 
we plan to increase development efficiency as we work to improve the top line going forward. 
Through the cumulative impact of each of these measures, we expect 2026 to be a year of 
further accelerating and advancing the rebuilding of our profit base. 
Strengths 
•  Strong brand image, technological capabilities, and trusted quality cultivated through motorsports 
•  Strong brand image, technological capabilities, and trusted quality cultivated through the golf 
course-use segment
Opportunities 
•  Rising demand for higher value-added recreational off-highway vehicles (ROVs) and all-terrain 
vehicles (ATVs) in the U.S. market 
•  Increasing demand for low-speed mobility in the U.S. market 
•  Used vehicle sales business utilizing off-lease golf course vehicles 
Risks 
•  Rapid changes in the global economy, exchange rates, environmental regulations, and other 
external factors 
•  Further intensification of competition resulting from new players entering the market 
Issues 
•  Need to strengthen the supply chain and B2C sales network 
•  Delays in updating the model lineup 
•  Lag in technological development to meet growing needs for higher value-added products 
Key Themes Progress
Build a foundation 
for the future 
through next-
generation platform 
development 
RV:  Develop a new platform capable of meeting cross-
segment needs 
LSM:  Expand value offerings in low-speed mobility by 
developing a new platform compatible with golf 
cars, PTVs, and LSVs 
RV:  Strengthened sales monitoring to improve the 
cash conversion cycle, and enhanced SCM 
operations to better respond to market changes; 
worked to develop a new platform model with a 
number of variations to expand the product lineup
LSM:  Worked to develop a new platform model 
Make additional 
investment 
decisions during the 
Medium-Term 
Management Plan 
period 
Assess market growth and the effectiveness of the U.S. 
integration strategy to determine by 2026 whether to 
make further investments in North America 
•  Expand OLV production capacity 
•  Construct additional RV development facilities 
•  Strengthen business management functions 
Currently reviewing our business direction in light of 
changes in the operating environment, with a policy 
to be announced in 2026 
Outdoor Land Vehicle 
Yamaha Motor golf cars are built on technologies 
developed over many years and proven reliability, 
giving them one of the largest market shares in Japan. 
As a new starting point for our next-generation LSM 
business, in June 2025 we began domestic market 
sales of two new five-seater electric golf cars, the 
G30Es and the G31EPs.
 The models feature newly developed lithium-ion 
batteries and vehicle control units. The batteries were 
produced entirely in-house,1 from development 
through manufacturing. Moreover, they use lithium 
iron phosphate materials, thereby achieving high 
reliability and a long lifespan. Moreover, the AC motor 
and optimized regenerative braking system ensure a 
smooth and pleasant ride as well as high power 
efficiency, reducing power consumption by about 30% 
compared to previous models.2 In this way they help 
reduce environmental load and running costs.
 In 2025, the LSM business celebrated fifty years of 
Yamaha Motor golf cars. Centered on our core of 
electrification and in-house production technologies, 
we will continue working to realize sustainable mobility 
in society. 
Close-Up ＞＞＞ Launching Five-Seater Electric Golf Cars with Newly Developed In-house Battery Technology
1. Development: Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd.; Manufacturing: Yamaha Motor Powered Products Co., Ltd.
2. Yamaha Motor research
Progress on Medium-Term Management Plan Key Themes 
Inputs
R&D
Expenses 
1.7x 
vs. previous plan 
Capital 
Expenditure
2.2x
vs. previous plan 
Expansion of 
Human Capital 
Engineers 
RV: 1.2x, LSM: 1.1x
Business KPI Targets for 2027 
Revenue 
Growth CAGR: 5% range ROS 2% range* ROIC 3% range*
* Before headquarters corporate expense allocations 

[Page 40]
113.3 111.5 116.0
3.0
0.6 6.0
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
 Forecast*
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
 Forecast*
(¥ billion) (¥ billion) 
SEMI
33.0%
SMT, etc. 
67.0%
Fiscal
2025
Robotics
39
Robotics 
Strategies by Business
The Robotics business began when we applied the automation and labor-
saving expertise cultivated at our own manufacturing sites to external 
markets, starting with the launch of our industrial robot operations in the 
early 1980s. Following the transfer of the UMS business (unmanned 
systems, primarily industrial-use unmanned helicopters and drones) to the 
Others segment in 2026, the Robotics business mainly comprises three 
segments: SMT (surface mounting technology-related equipment), SEMI 
(semiconductor back-end processing equipment), and FA (industrial robots 
and other factory automation solutions). 
 In the global manufacturing industry, the need for automation and 
labor-saving is expected to intensify due to labor shortages and other 
factors. Additionally, with the proliferation of generative AI, demand for 
semiconductor-related products is projected to rise, presenting significant 
opportunities for this business. Our strengths lie in our lineup of high-
precision, reliable products such as SMT equipment. Furthermore, by 
integrating our diverse product groups, we can provide automation and 
labor-saving solutions for the entire production floor not just for individual 
production processes, but also at the production line level, through cross-
selling that takes advantage of our strength in factory automation systems. 
The Robotics business provides solutions to customers’ needs by optimizing 
entire factories, which ultimately contributes to more fulfilling lifestyles 
for their end users. 
 In particular, in the high-growth SEMI segment, we will accelerate 
research and development as well as capital expenditure in cutting-edge 
semiconductor-related technologies. In 2025, we merged our wholly owned 
subsidiary, Yamaha Robotics Holdings Co., Ltd., with its wholly owned 
subsidiaries Shinkawa Ltd., Apic Yamada Corporation, and PFA Corporation, 
to establish Yamaha Robotics Co., Ltd. Through the merger, Yamaha 
Robotics will accelerate value creation beyond customer expectations, 
striving to become one of the world’s leading total solution providers in 
semiconductor back-end processing and surface mounting technology. 
Market Environment 
Surface Mounting Technology-Related Equipment (SMT) 
  Main Markets  Japan  Asia  Europe and U.S.
Semiconductor Back-End Processing Equipment (SEMI) 
  Main Markets  Japan  Asia  Europe and U.S.
Industrial Robots (FA) 
  Main Markets  Japan  Asia  Europe and U.S.
Business Overview 
Driven by investment in  
AI data centers, demand 
relating to circuit board 
assembly is expanding in 
markets worldwide. Amid 
rapid development of 
generative AI, we have 
introduced the Hybrid 
Placer, which can handle 
both large semiconductor 
components and standard 
electronic components on a 
single machine, further 
extending our product range 
and helping us to attract a 
broader customer base. 
As the market for advanced 
semiconductors grows along 
with the expansion of generative 
AI, we offer total solutions for 
semiconductor back-end 
processing. Leveraging our 
processing technologies and 
close collaboration with customers, 
we are creating new value and 
expanding our business by 
strengthening our presence in 
advanced semiconductors for 
generative AI, memory, and 
optical communications, while 
utilizing Yamaha Robotics’ 
global network.
With a global labor shortage 
driving increased demand 
for factory automation, we 
provide a lineup of high- 
speed, high-precision 
SCARA-type robots and 
linear conveyor modules as 
well as low-profile single- 
axis robots and cobots.  
We aim to drive growth by 
strengthening our solutions 
for companies operating 
globally.Bonding equipment, 
molding equipment, etc. 
SMT equipment, printers, 
systems and software, etc. 
Linear conveyor modules, 
SCARA-type robots, etc. 
Ayako Egashira 
Executive Officer, 
Chief General Manager of  
Solution Business Operations 
*  As of 2026, the UMS business (unmanned systems, 
primarily drones and industrial-use unmanned 
helicopters) has been transferred to the Others segment. 
Revenue Breakdown by  
Main Product Category 
Revenue Operating Profit 
Business Vision   Supporting a rapidly digitalizing society and transforming the mobility 
production processes with our One-Stop Smart Solution  
Leveraging a broad product lineup, we support automation and labor-saving at customers’ production sites, contribute to addressing labor 
shortages and rising labor costs, and drive business growth.
Main Competitors 
FUJI, PANASONIC, ASMPT, HANWHA
Main Competitors 
ASMPT, BESI, K&S, TOWA 
Main Competitors 
EPSON, MITSUBISHI, DENSO, IAI, INOVANCE 


[Page 41]
40
Strategies by Business
Review of Fiscal 2025 
Future Policies and Key Measures 
Investment remained firm in electronic component and semiconductor markets, particularly in 
areas related to generative AI. Nevertheless, demand varied by region and sector due in part to 
curtailed investment resulting from additional U.S. tariffs. Under these conditions, we steadily 
pursued a profitability-focused sales approach and progressed with cost structure reforms in 
our core SMT business. At the same time, sales in the SEMI business also grew, backed by 
robust demand for generative AI and from other advanced technological fields. This resulted in 
an improved overall profit structure for the Robotics business and a substantial reduction in 
operating loss from the previous year. Moreover, 2025 was a year of reinforcing our foundation 
for medium- to long-term growth by enhancing our ability to create customer-driven value, 
including through the merger of four robotics-related subsidiaries, with Yamaha Robotics Co., 
Ltd. as the surviving company. 
We have seen major changes in our operating environment over the past few years due to factors 
including trends in economic security policies, geopolitical risks, and shifts in the competitive 
landscape. Nevertheless, the market as a whole is expected to grow over the medium to long 
term, and we view the expansion of new demand associated mainly with generative AI, and the 
transition to advanced technologies as significant opportunities for our business. 
 Although we cannot count on rapid market expansion in 2026, we aim to secure steadily 
growing demand and achieve both sales growth and improved profitability. In the SMT business, 
we will continue our profit-focused strategy while capturing demand from mid-sized users of 
AI-related devices, consumer electronics, and power equipment. In the SEMI business, we will 
drive growth by expanding sales of our new wire bonders and by steadily capturing demand 
related to generative AI and the expanding advanced semiconductor packaging market. We are 
also leveraging the business foundation established through the merger of four robotics-
related subsidiaries in July 2025 to take a unified approach to development, manufacturing, 
and sales. In addition to improving manufacturing and procurement efficiency, we will use the 
technologies and production expertise of each company across the organization to strengthen 
product development capabilities and supply responsiveness, thus achieving tangible benefits 
from the integration. 
Strengths 
•  Provision of products and services with value aligned to customer needs through unified 
production, sales, and technology operations 
•  Provision of total solutions from semiconductor manufacturing processes to mounting and assembly 
•  Co-creation capabilities founded on strong relationships with business partners 
Opportunities 
•  Expected market growth in tandem with technological innovation and increasing demand 
•  Demand for semiconductor parts driven by the expansion of generative AI 
•  Growth in semiconductor-related markets and shifting regional dynamics 
•  Growth of market share through acquisition of new customers and development of cutting-
edge technologies 
Risks 
•  Economic security and geopolitical risks 
•  Intensifying price competition 
•  Competition to develop new technologies in the SEMI segment 
Issues 
•  Difficulty in securing profits due to rising costs; need to improve profitability 
•  Keeping up with short turnaround times and large shifts in demand volume (supply chain, 
inventory, and human resources) 
Key Themes Progress
Surface 
mounting 
technology 
(SMT) 
Establish a top-three position in the industry by focusing 
on acquiring major automotive and EMS customers 
•  Target areas: Automotive parts, communication 
devices, and network infrastructure-related sectors 
•  Acquire new major automotive and EMS customers 
•  Improve profitability 
•  Strengthen proposal and support capabilities for 
customers operating globally
•  Acquired major customers in the growing data 
center (communication devices and network-related) 
sector 
•  Implementing cost reforms centered on mainstay 
models 
•  Promoted sales and established a service system in 
the Indian market 
Semiconductor 
back-end 
processing 
equipment 
(SEMI) 
Stay ahead of technological advances and redefine 
our market position 
•  Priority areas: Advanced semiconductors (including 
AI-related), memory, optical communications, and 
next-generation semiconductors 
•  Launch new platform models in core areas 
•  Develop and expand sales of solutions in growth 
areas 
•  Strengthen global sales and service capabilities 
•  Integrated subsidiaries into Yamaha Robotics Co., 
Ltd. to maximize synergies 
•  Increased mold die production capacity by making 
Apic Yamada Precision Corporation a wholly owned 
subsidiary 
•  Launched new platform models UTC-RZ1 (wire 
bonder) and MS-R (molding equipment) 
•  Expanded sales in advanced semiconductor and 
optical communications semiconductor markets 
related to generative AI
•  Enhanced sales and service capabilities in key 
regions; established sales and service systems in 
the Indian market 
Factory 
automation 
(FA) 
Deliver automation solutions in collaboration with 
the SMT and SEMI segments 
•  Rebuild business models to return to a growth 
trajectory 
•  Improved proposal capabilities for automation 
solutions and grew sales by securing more projects 
•  Contributed to the automation of semiconductor 
back-end processing and establishment of industry 
labor-saving standards through participation in the 
Semiconductor Assembly Test Automation and 
Standardization Research Association (SATAS) 
Robotics 
Progress on Medium-Term Management Plan Key Themes 
Inputs
R&D
Expenses 
1.3x
vs. previous plan 
Capital 
Expenditure
0.7x (SMT) 
2.2x (SEMI) 
vs. previous plan 
Expansion of 
Human Capital 1.2x
Business KPI Targets for 2027 
Revenue 
Growth CAGR: 15% range ROS 17% range* ROIC 15% range* 
* Before headquarters corporate expense allocations 

[Page 42]
Financial Services
796.6
857.8 859.0
22.7 21.1
26.0
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
Forecast
2024
Result
2025
Result
2026
Initial
Forecast
(¥ billion) (¥ billion) 
Latin
America 
12 %
Oceania 
10 %
Europe 
2%
North
America 
75 %
Fiscal
2025
41
Financial Services 
Strategies by Business
Our value proposition in the Financial Services business is: (1) Incremental 
sales; (2) Customer retention with customer/unit journey; (3) Consistency 
through any economic conditions; and (4) Profitability. 
 In realizing this value, our financial services offers both retail and 
wholesale financing that supports the sale of Yamaha Motor products,  
as well as insurance and related services. 
 This financing includes loans and leases that make Yamaha Motor 
products more economically accessible to customers and dealerships, and 
also helps dealerships maintain working capital. They foster the decision 
to buy and promote market penetration. 
 As for insurance and related services, we provide extended warranty 
programs that allow customers to enjoy our products with greater peace 
of mind. We also offer one-stop solutions that address insurance needs 
relating to the use of our products. 
 The Financial Services business seeks to provide global solutions 
tailored to the business conditions and regulatory requirements of each 
region. In addition to supporting the sustainable growth of each of our 
Market Environment 
Business Overview 
We provide financial service solutions to create conditions that make it easier for 
dealerships to sell Yamaha Motor products and for customers to purchase them. 
In Brazil, we offer a group-purchase program unique to the region, whereby multiple 
participants form a consortium and make fixed monthly payments, enabling members 
to obtain motorcycles in turn. Through programs such as this, we provide financing 
solutions tailored to local customs and practices.
We aim to help customers enjoy Yamaha Motor products more easily and with greater 
peace of mind by precisely identifying customer needs, reducing concerns associated 
with product ownership and usage, and providing one-stop services. 
Jeffrey Young 
Executive Officer, 
President & CEO of Yamaha Motor 
Finance Corporation 
Value Proposition of the Financial Services Business 
businesses in each region we serve, we will continue promoting financial 
service solutions that help to provide new excitement and more fulfilling 
lives for Yamaha Motor customers. 
Incremental Sales ProfitabilityCustomer Retention 
with Customer/Unit 
Journey
Consistency through 
Any Economic 
Conditions
Portfolio Distribution by Region
Finance Assets Operating Profit 
Business Vision   Provide sound Financial Services that contribute new Kando  
and a more fulfilling life for Yamaha customers 
By establishing ongoing customer touchpoints through financial services, we not only support customers when they buy our products but also 
maintain and deepen our relationship with them over the long term. In doing so, we provide customers with new excitement and a more 
fulfilling life while contributing to a more stable earnings base and sustainable growth for the Yamaha Motor Group as a whole. 
Main Products and Services Loans, leases (consumer and commercial), consortium program  
Products Covered Yamaha Motor products 
Main Products and Services Insurance brokerage, extended warranties  
Products Covered Yamaha Motor products 
Financing
  Main Markets  North America  Latin America  Oceania  Europe
Insurance and Related Services
  Main Markets  North America  Latin America  Oceania  Europe

[Page 43]
42
Strategies by Business
Review of Fiscal 2025
Future Policies and Key Measures 
We operated in a highly uncertain economic environment in 2025 due to external factors such 
as U.S. tariff policies. Nevertheless, the Financial Services business performed steadily, as 
finance assets increased 8% year on year to ¥857.8 billion, supported in part by an increase in 
financing related to marine products. 
 While revenue increased as a result of the increase in finance assets, operating profit was 
¥21.1 billion, affected by a one-time impact from the fair value measurement of interest rate 
swaps. Business ROA was 2.4%. 
 Yamaha Motor Finance Corporation (YMFC), which oversees the Group’s global financial 
services business, was established in the United States in 2022. By 2025, it had completed the 
reorganization of its financial services subsidiaries in the United States, Canada, Brazil, France, 
Australia, and New Zealand. As the YMFC Group, we have formed a global team and made 
operational improvements in France and Canada. We are also conducting timely and appropriate 
appointment to the right roles of excellent talent from within the Group. 
Under the current Medium-Term Management Plan, we will roll out our unique, sustainable 
Financial Services business in the global market, aiming for ¥1 trillion in finance assets, ROA of 
3.0%, and ROE of 10%. 
 Based on a global governance structure, the plan promotes three pillars: competitiveness, 
growth potential, and profitability. We will strengthen competitiveness through closer 
collaboration with product sales businesses and the use of technology. We will also improve 
capital efficiency by ensuring appropriate capital management, thereby further raising the 
competitiveness and profitability of the Financial Services business. With regard to growth 
potential, we are considering expanding the extended warranty and insurance businesses, 
providing financial service solutions for peripheral products, and entering new markets. Through 
these initiatives, we seek to make an even greater contribution to the product sales businesses. 
Strengths 
•  Providing stable services over the very long term, unaffected by economic conditions 
•  Building strong, lifelong bonds with customers 
•  Sustainable revenue growth 
Opportunities 
•  Securing earnings and growth in new markets (Europe and Latin America) 
•  Expanding financing programs for marine products 
•  Expanding financial services to include extended warranties, insurance, and peripheral products 
Risks 
•  Increase in funding costs stemming from geopolitical and market uncertainties
•  Increase in bad debt 
•  Increase in operational risk 
Issues 
• Global business risk management  
 Measures:  Establish a global governance structure based on business management 
company Yamaha Motor Finance Corporation (YMFC) 
•  Contributing more to product sales businesses  
 Measures:  Strengthen inter-business collaboration and use technology to raise business 
competitiveness
• Raising ROE  
 Measures:  Conduct effective capital management within the Group through YMFC 
Key Themes Progress
Improving the 
competitiveness of 
the Financial 
Services business 
•  Timely and appropriate promotion to the right roles 
of capable talent 
•  Increase the sophistication of compliance and 
governance 
•  Improve business capital efficiency (ROE)
•  Made business improvements in the global team 
•  Promoted deployment of talent from within the 
Group 
•  Formulated and implemented capital policies for  
the Financial Services business in stages 
Contributing to 
product sales 
businesses 
•  Increase the usage sophistication and utilization 
rate of financial services 
•  Provide more sophisticated services using 
technology 
•  Expand business, including entry into new markets 
•  Identified and rolled out best practices 
•  Upgraded customer touchpoint systems in the 
United States and other regions 
•  Increased the number of users of marine product 
financing 
Financial Services 
Example Yamaha Products available in overseas markets in conjunction with financial services
Progress on Medium-Term Management Plan Key Themes
Inputs
Innovation Increase speed of 
adoption of FinTech
Talent 
Management 
The right person,  
in the right role,  
at the right time 
Governance, 
Risk Management,
and Compliance
Robust governance 
structure and globalized 
one business operation 
Business KPI Targets for 2027
Finance 
Assets ¥1 trillion ROA 3.0% level1 ROE 10% level2
1. Operating profit / Average receivables    2. Net Profit / Average Equity

[Page 44]
Sustainability Strategies
Board of Directors
President, Chief Executive Officer and Representative Director (CEO)
Business sectors, functional sectors, corporate sectors, and subsidiaries
Management Committee
Sustainability
Committee
Environment
Committee
Human
Capital
Management
Committee
Talent
Management
Committee
Global Risk
& Compliance
Management
Committee
Global Risk
& Compliance
Steering
Committee
Seeking advice / Making recommendations
Supervision / Reporting
Instructions /
Submission for
deliberation
Instructions /
Submission for
deliberation
Instruction /
Reporting
Coordination Coordination Coordination
Structure for Deliberation and 
Promotion of Sustainability Topics
Global Executive Committee
Marketing Management Committee
Technology Management Committee
Manufacturing & Procurement
Management Committee, etc.(Other committees)
43
Overview of  
Sustainability Strategies
We believe that contributing to the sustainable development of society through business activities in line with our Corporate 
Mission to be a Kando Creating Company represents the kind of approach to sustainability expected of Yamaha Motor.
The Company has positioned sustainability as a key pillar of its management and is kick-starting efforts aimed at building  
a more sustainable world.
The Yamaha Motor Group’s Corporate Mission is to be a Kando Creating Company. We aim to offer people all over the world joy, 
amazement, elation, fulfillment, and happiness through our products and services while maintaining harmony with society and the 
global environment. To achieve this, we will leverage the empathy arising from connections between people as an engine for 
creating new value. As a company trusted by society, we will, under appropriate corporate governance, contribute to the resolution 
of societal issues and sustainable development through innovative and diverse products and services, in ways that embody the 
unique style of Yamaha.
 We ask our business partners to uphold this policy and act in accordance with it.
Yamaha Motor Group Sustainability Basic Policy
The Board of Directors formulates Groupwide basic policies 
relating to sustainability, oversees responses to 
sustainability issues, and regularly reviews their 
implementation status.
 The Management Committee, chaired by the President 
and Chief Executive Officer, and with executive officers as 
members, deliberates on and determines responses to 
sustainability issues.
 Furthermore, the Company has established three 
subordinate committees that, subject to deliberation by the 
Management Committee, formulate medium- to long-term 
plans, conduct risk assessments, and carry out monitoring 
from a specialized perspective: the Sustainability Committee, 
the Global Risk & Compliance Management Committee, and 
the Human Capital Management Committee. Each committee 
is chaired by an executive officer, with members comprising 
executive officers and chief general managers designated by 
the respective chair.
 In addition, the Sustainability Committee is supported by 
the Environment Committee, the Global Risk & Compliance 
Management Committee is supported by the Global Risk & 
Compliance Steering Committee, and the Human Capital 
Management Committee is supported by the Talent Management 
Committee. These committees review and deliberate on specific 
topics and monitor the progress of related initiatives.
Sustainability Promotion Structure Sustainability Promotion Structure
•  We will comply with international rules, laws, and ordinances, and at the same time, we will work to prevent corruption and execute our 
operations with fairness and integrity.
•   We will respect human rights, will not discriminate, and will not use child labor or carry out forced labor in any form.
•  We will value our relationships with our stakeholders and disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner.
External Recognition
FTSE4Good Index Series
FTSE JPX Blossom Japan Index
FTSE JPX Blossom Japan Sector Relative Index
MSCI ESG RATINGS (AAA rating)1
MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index2
MSCI Selection Indexes3
CDP (Rated A- in the climate change category and B- in the 
water security categories for 2025)
Bright 500, 2026 Outstanding Organizations of KENKO 
Investment for Health Program (Large Enterprise Category)
1.  THE USE BY YAMAHA MOTOR OF ANY MSCI ESG RESEARCH LLC OR ITS 
AFFILIATES (“MSCI”) DATA, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, 
SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A 
SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT, RECOMMENDATION, OR PROMOTION OF 
YAMAHA MOTOR BY MSCI. MSCI SERVICES AND DATA ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF MSCI OR ITS INFORMATION PROVIDERS, AND ARE PROVIDED ‘AS-IS’ AND 
WITHOUT WARRANTY. MSCI NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE 
MARKS OF MSCI.
2.  THE INCLUSION OF YAMAHA MOTOR IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI 
LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT 
CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF YAMAHA 
MOTOR BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE 
EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS 
ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES.
3.  Kindly note that MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes was renamed as MSCI Selection 
Indexes in February 2025.
 Yamaha Motor Group Sustainability Basic Policy on our website

[Page 45]
Board of Directors 
President, Chief Executive Officer 
and Representative Director 
Management Committee     Members: Executive officers 
Executive Officers 
including CxOs 
Business sectors, functional sectors, corporate sectors, and subsidiaries 
Global Risk & Compliance Management Committee 
Members: Executive officers
Sustainability Committee 
Members: Executive officers and chief general managers 
Global Risk & Compliance Steering Committee Environment Committee 
Supervision / Reporting 
Seeking advice / Making recommendations 
Instructions / Submission for deliberation 
Instructions / Submission for deliberation 
Coordination
Instructions / Reporting
Instructions / Submission for deliberation 
Environment Promotion Meeting 
Shares the status of working group activities and monitors 
progress in advancing initiatives in each environmental area 
Product Environmental Regulation Committee 
Companywide management of compliance with 
environmental regulations related to products and processes 
Instructions / Submission for deliberation 
Business Execution 
Deliberation, review, and 
promotion of basic 
policies and important 
matters concerning 
environment-related issues 
• Climate change 
• Resource recycling 
• Biodiversity 
Important 
matters 
CoordinationCoordination
Climate 
Change 
Action Themes 2050 Targets Initiatives 
and Progress 
Resource 
Recycling 
Carbon Neutrality 
Achieve carbon neutrality across the entire supply chain by 2050 
Achieve carbon neutrality for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2035 
Circular Economy 
Use of sustainable raw materials: 100% 
Nature Positive 
Strengthening of environmental conservation and biodiversity promotion 
activities in various countries and regions 
Key Risks Key Opportunities 
Initiatives to ensure compliance with emissions standards in each 
country and region may increase development costs. 
Rising motorcycle demand in emerging markets may increase CO 2  
emissions from operations, and the introduction of carbon taxes 
may increase operating costs. 
Heightened environmental awareness may lead to a drop in sales of 
products that use fossil fuels. 
Short-term 
Medium-term 
Long-term 
As electrification in mobility accelerates, shortages of scarce 
resources required for storage batteries may lead to higher 
procurement costs. 
Growing resource consumption in emerging markets may lead to 
heightened procurement risks, including resource shortages and 
cost increases. 
Short- to 
medium-term 
Long-term 
Economic growth in emerging markets is increasing 
demand for motorcycles as an affordable means of 
transportation. Demand for electric models is growing, 
mainly in developed markets. 
Electric models may be widely adopted. 
Short- to 
medium-term 
Long-term 
Extreme weather events associated with climate change may 
cause the destruction of ecosystems in oceans, mountains, and 
forests where our products are used.
Short- to 
long-term 
Increased awareness of the need to conserve the natural 
environment may drive growth in the outdoor recreation 
market. 
Short- to 
long-term 
Demand may increase for mobility that is resource-efficient 
in terms of raw materials and energy use. 
The rental business and sharing services may grow. 
Resource-efficient ultra-compact mobility is being 
integrated into social infrastructure. 
Short-term 
Medium-term 
Long-term 
Biodiversity 
p. 45
p. 47
p. 47
44
Environmental Plan 2050 The Yamaha Motor Group Environmental Plan 2050 is the basis for implementing our environmental strategy. Under the plan, we 
have set climate change, resource recycling, and biodiversity as priority action themes, with carbon neutrality, a circular 
economy, and nature positive as goals. In 2025, we conducted a nature-related impact assessment in line with the Taskforce on 
Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) framework, recognizing the importance of nature across all of these priority action 
themes. 
As detailed under “Sustainability Promotion Structure”                , 
the environment is positioned as one of the Company’s key 
management issues. To advance environmental initiatives, we 
have established the Environment Committee, chaired by the 
executive officer responsible for promoting environmental 
initiatives or the person designated by that executive officer. The 
Environment Committee meets four times a year. Its responsibilities 
include deliberating on policies and visions related to climate 
change, resource recycling, biodiversity, and other environmental 
issues; formulating the Yamaha Motor Group’s long-term 
environmental plan (Environmental Plan 2050); and conducting 
annual reviews of each business unit’s progress against its targets. 
We have established the Environment Promotion Meeting and the 
Product Environmental Regulation Committee as subordinate 
bodies of the Environment Committee to organize matters 
relating to specific issues and consider response policies. 
 In addition, the status of sustainability management—including 
the results of environmental management initiatives, progress in 
improving organizational culture to accelerate human capital 
management, and the overall progress and results of risk and 
compliance management—is included in the evaluation criteria for 
Companywide performance-based compensation of directors, 
including the President (excluding outside directors).
→ p. 43
Overview of Yamaha Motor Group Environmental Plan 2050 
Governance 
Short-term: Would impact near-term financial performance (including the potential for the issue materializing within three years) 
Medium-term: Requires significant adjustments to our strategy (including the potential for the issue materializing over a timeframe of three to six years) 
Long-term: Fundamentally affects the viability of our long-term strategy and business model (including the potential for the issue materializing over a timeframe of six or more years) 
 Yamaha Motor Group Environmental Plan 2050 on our website 

[Page 46]
S cope 3, Category 1 1 
 Fiscal 2025 Results 
53.3  million t-CO2
Motorcycles 
91 %
Outboard motors 
and other 
marine products 
4 %
ROVs, etc. 
2 %
Other 
3 %
Greater efforts for nationally determined contributions among countries/regions 
Increased focus on ESG factors in investing 
Transition to cleaner energy mixes 
Institution of carbon taxes and stricter environmental regulations 
External 
Environment 
Specific 
Measures 
Employ internationally recognized carbon offset methods 
2010
 (Base year) 
2025 
Result 
2030 2035 2050
-80%
-92%
Early 
achievement 
of carbon 
neutrality 
in 2035 
CO 2  emissions intensity 
Application of theoretical-value-based energy approach (energy-saving activities) 
Utilization of renewable energy sources (solar power, etc.) 
Equipment upgrades and production process reforms 
Use of electricity and non-fossil-fuel resources to meet equipment heat demand 
Carbon offsets 
-73%
Tightening of regulations for ICE fuel efficiency 
Expanded regulations for vehicle electrification 
Transition to cleaner energy mixes 
Wider use of carbon-neutral fuels (biofuels, hydrogen, e-fuels, etc.) 
2024
 (Base year) 
2030 2035
2050
-13%
-27%
-86%
CO 2  emissions intensity 
External 
Environment 
Specific 
Measures 
Employ internationally recognized carbon offset methods 
Improvement of ICE fuel efficiency 
Expansion of BEV product lineup 
Expansion of BEV model sales
Development of powertrains compatible with carbon-neutral fuels 
Carbon offsets 
-1%
2025 
Result 
45
Climate Change We support the objectives of the Paris Agreement, the international framework for addressing climate change. In our 
Sustainability Basic Policy, we commit to promoting technological development to help prevent global warming, to minimizing 
the environmental impact of our business activities, and to conserving biodiversity and using natural resources sustainably. 
2050 
Target Carbon neutrality across the entire supply chain 
2035 
Targets 
Scope 1 and 2: Achieve carbon neutrality 
Scope 3, Category 11: 27% reduction 
(compared with 2024) 
2030 
Targets 
Scope 1 and 2: 80% reduction (compared with 2010) 
Scope 3, Category 11: 13% reduction 
(compared with 2024) 
Yamaha Motor’s Climate Targets Yamaha Motor’s Approach to Carbon Neutrality 
CO2 emissions associated with the use of our products 
(Scope 3, Category 11) account for more than 80% of the 
Yamaha Motor Group’s total CO2 emissions, making reductions 
in this category a key priority. 
We are working to reduce CO 2 emissions through a multi-pathway approach with the goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 
2050 → p. 46 . For Scope 1 and 2 emissions and Scope 3 Category 11 emissions, we have identified expected changes in the 
external environment, developed corresponding measures, and incorporated them into the roadmap below. 
 For Scope 1 and 2, we are reducing CO2 emissions through four key initiatives: application of the theoretical-value-based 
energy approach, the introduction of renewable energy, equipment and process upgrades, and the use of electricity and non-
fossil fuel resources to meet equipment heat demand. In addition to these initiatives, in fiscal 2025 we established ZERO BLUE 
LAB Mimori, a demonstration facility for hydrogen-related technologies, as part of our efforts to minimize Scope 1 emissions. The 
facility is equipped with a hydrogen-compatible melting furnace and heat-treatment furnace, and we plan to roll out these 
technologies across the Group through demonstration testing of fossil fuel-free processes using hydrogen fuel. From 2026 
onward, we plan to install additional equipment at the facility for producing low-cost green hydrogen, as well as for capturing CO2 
from exhaust gases and converting it into synthetic methane, with the aim of establishing a more comprehensive set of 
technologies that support carbon neutrality. As a result of these efforts, in fiscal 2025, Scope 1 and 2 emissions fell by 
approximately 6% year on year. This represents approximately 47% reduction from the base year (2010). As such, we are making 
steady progress toward our reduction target for 2030 (80% reduction from the base year).
Scope 1 and 2 Targets Scope 3, Category 11 Targets 
Note:  Calculated using the Emissions Unit Value Database (Ver. 3.6) based on the Basic Guidelines 
on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain (Ver. 2.8) issued 
by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment.
ICE: Internal combustion engine; BEV: Battery electric vehicle

[Page 47]
BEVs
Increase in 
renewable 
energy use 
Use of fossil fuels 
as an emergency 
power source 
Carbon-neutral
fuels  
ICEs and
electric powertrains
Surplus electricity 
used to generate 
hydrogen 
CO 2  recovery 
BEVs
Fuel cells
Fuel cells
Hydrogen engines
Hydrogen engines
Carbon-neutral
fuels + ICEs
and electric
powertrains
Hydrogen 
Motorcycles
Motorcycles
Boats Compact low-
speed vehicles
Outboard
motors
ROVs
ROVs
Golf cars SHV units 
for large drones 
Outboard 
motors Outboard 
motors 
Industrial-use 
unmanned 
helicopters 
Global Cumulative Patents
Hierarchical exploration of technical features
All 
vehicles 
Electric 
motorcycles 
20,000 10,000 5,000 1,000 500 50
2,000 1,000 500 300 100
Patent filings
White space
46
Climate Change 
A multi-pathway approach seeks to achieve carbon neutrality through multiple options pursued in parallel 
rather than relying on any single solution or technology. As a global company, we recognize the 
importance of having multiple options in our carbon neutrality strategy given future uncertainties arising 
from regional differences in product usage environments and resource constraints. As a manufacturer of 
transportation equipment, CO2 emissions from product use (Scope 3, Category 11) account for a significant 
share of emissions in our value chain. We therefore believe that advancing the development and adoption 
of compact mobility solutions with lower lifecycle CO2 emissions—from raw materials to manufacturing, 
use and disposal—through a multi-pathway approach will enhance the effectiveness of our efforts to 
achieve carbon neutrality. In addition to improving fuel efficiency of ICE-powered products and promoting 
electrification, the development of powertrains that can support a diverse range of energy sources, 
including carbon-neutral fuels (hydrogen, biofuels, e-fuels, etc.), is a key pathway for the Company. We 
believe that further CO2 emissions reductions can be achieved by reducing emissions from battery 
manufacturing and expanding renewable energy-powered charging infrastructure. 
 We will continue to expand our options in response to changing circumstances and steadily reduce 
Scope 3 emissions, thereby helping to bring about a carbon-neutral society. 
Multi-Pathway Initiatives 
Improved Fuel Efficiency in the Redesigned 
50-Horsepower Mid-Range Outboard Motor
In 2025, we implemented minor design updates to seven variants 
across five models of our four-stroke outboard motors. For the 
F50L and the high-thrust FT50N, a new electronically controlled 
fuel injection system featuring an updated Engine Control Unit 
(ECU) enhances combustion efficiency, resulting in approximately 
5–8% better fuel economy. 
Development of a Power Management System for Fuel Cell Vehicles (FCVs) 
Yamaha Motor Engineering Co., Ltd. has developed a hybrid system combining a fuel cell and a lithium-ion capacitor (LiC) for use in 
compact electric mobility vehicles that need to deliver high power quickly. While FCVs offer excellent cruising range, load fluctuations 
can cause performance to degrade over time. Our technology mitigates these fluctuations, enabling high power responsiveness. 
Compared with conventional systems that use lithium-ion batteries (LiBs) as secondary batteries, the new system is approximately 
53% more compact, 50% lighter, and delivers approximately 23% better acceleration performance. These advances are expected to 
support the development of compact mobility solutions with lower lifecycle CO2 emissions. 
Leveraging Intellectual Property Analysis in the Electrification Domain 
Under its multi-pathway approach, Yamaha Motor is advancing its intellectual property (IP) strategy, which is aligned with the 
motorcycle premium segment strategy in emerging markets, while preparing for the deployment of a diverse powertrain lineup, 
including for battery electric vehicles (BEVs). In the electric motorcycle domain, we systematically conduct IP analysis of 
technologies and assess the competitive landscape to identify 
untapped opportunities (i.e., “patent white space”). This enables 
us to optimize our IP portfolio and further advance electrification 
technologies. In addition, by utilizing IP-related KPIs, we continuously 
monitor our competitive advantages and enhance our IP activities 
to support next-generation mobility, including BEVs. Through 
these efforts, we aim to strengthen our competitiveness and 
achieve sustainable growth.
Hydrogen Engine Motorcycle Unveiled at Japan Mobility Show 
At Japan Mobility Show 2025, we unveiled the H2 Buddy Porter 
Concept, a hydrogen engine motorcycle concept currently under 
joint development with Toyota Motor Corporation. Toyota 
developed a new compact high-pressure hydrogen tank certified by 
the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) suitable for 
motorcycles and scooters, while Yamaha Motor was primarily 
responsible for developing the hydrogen engine and chassis, among 
other components. On a full tank, the model achieved a cruising 
range of over 100 kilometers in testing. The model also takes into 
account the various technical requirements for public road use 
based on existing regulations and complies with Euro 5 emissions 
standards, including NOx limits.
Anticipated Future Mobility Energy Mix 
Examples of Specific Initiatives 
 H2 Buddy Porter Concept on our website 

[Page 48]
47
Resource Recycling Biodiversity We are promoting initiatives aimed at realizing 
a circular economy in line with the goal of 
effective use and recycling of limited resources.
We recognize that our business activities have the potential 
to impact ecosystems, and as such we are committed to 
realizing a sustainable society in harmony with nature. 
The European End-of-Life Vehicles (ELV) Regulation was proposed in July 2023, and a 
provisional agreement was announced in December 2025. Following formal adoption by both 
the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, the ELV Regulation is 
expected to enter into force in 2026. Meanwhile, in Japan, the Act on Promotion of Resource 
Circulation for Plastics came into effect in April 2022. The legislation calls for the establishment 
of resource circulation systems across the entire product lifecycle, from design and manufacturing 
to disposal, collection, and recycling. 
 In response to these developments and the growing adoption of recycled materials in the 
automotive industry, Yamaha Motor has adopted a policy of transitioning the materials used in 
its products to sustainable materials1 by 2050. 
Yamaha Motor uses a wide variety of materials in its products. For key materials—steel, 
aluminum alloys, commodity plastics, and engineering plastics—we are advancing initiatives 
based on three pillars: (1) Development of recycled materials, (2) Adoption of green materials 
produced using renewable energy, and (3) Development of plastics incorporating plant-derived 
materials. To date, we have expanded the use of electric furnace steel sheets for packaging 
frames and promoted the development of recycled aluminum alloys used in motorcycle engines. 
 For aluminum, recycled materials are already used in many cast engine components for 
motorcycles. However, alloys based on virgin materials continue to be used in certain major 
overseas models. To address this, we have been evaluating the replacement of current 
materials with recycled materials designed to deliver equivalent performance, with the aim of 
further expanding the use of sustainable materials. 
 As a result, approximately 40% of all steel, aluminum alloys, and commodity plastics 
purchased for use in our in-house manufactured components have already been transitioned to 
sustainable materials. Nevertheless, establishing a methodology for understanding the extent of 
sustainable material use in components that are purchased from suppliers remains a challenge. 
Commodity Plastics and Engineering Plastics 
The resins used in our in-house manufacturing include commodity 
plastics such as PP and ABS, as well as engineering plastics such as PA. 
At present, PIR materials2 are used in some PP applications, and we are 
working to expand their use. For ABS, we are also considering switching 
to recycled ABS and the adoption of materials that produce lower CO2 
emissions. For engineering plastics, which require high strength, it is first 
necessary to assess the feasibility of developing recycled materials. 
 As future supply constraints have been identified as a challenge in 
the recycled plastics market, we plan to advance the replacement of 
virgin materials. This will include utilizing biomass-based materials in 
addition to securing recycled materials, including PIR and PCR materials.3 
Social Trends Related to Resource Recycling Our Approach to Being Nature Positive 
Initiatives toward a 100% Sustainable Material Usage Rate
1. Sustainable materials: Collective term for recycled materials, green materials, and biomass-based materials 
2. Post-industrial recycled (PIR) materials: Recycled plastics derived from industrial processes 
3. Post-consumer recycled (PCR) materials: Recycled plastics derived from consumer waste 
We view environmental conservation activities that embody the unique style of Yamaha Motor 
from the following four perspectives. 
At Yamaha Motor, we understand that our business activities are heavily dependent on the 
blessings of nature that biodiversity provides us with, and that those activities have the 
potential to impact ecosystems. Being nature positive—halting and reversing nature loss—is 
one of the goals of our Environmental Plan 2050. In response to growing societal expectations, 
we are promoting initiatives that consider the impacts of our business activities and products 
on biodiversity across the value chain, and are working to minimize adverse impacts. 
 We will address biodiversity conservation proactively, systematically, and continuously, 
based on our corporate philosophy, the Yamaha Motor Group Sustainability Basic Policy, and 
Environmental Plan 2050, from the perspectives of diversity of ecosystems, biological species, 
and genes; activities that supplement the benefits of nature; and minimizing negative impact. 
Initiatives for Creating a Society in Harmony with Nature 
Activities to protect the natural 
environment where our products are used 
We continuously engage in activities to protect 
mountains, oceans, and other natural environments 
where our products (including motorcycles, ATVs, 
snowmobiles, personal watercraft, and boats) are used, 
as we believe such activities are vital to the sustainability 
of our business. 
Activities in collaboration with Yamaha users 
There are many customers around the world 
who use our products. We will work with these 
customers to promote activities that protect the global 
environment. 
Activities that make use of our products 
Our products are used to help protect 
nature, such as in conservation activities 
and unmanned survey operations in areas that cannot 
be easily accessed by humans. 
Activities that contribute to solving 
regional environmental issues 
Our business encompasses operations in 
various regions around the world. With the 
understanding that our business activities are based 
in the environment of these regions, we will also 
tackle regional environmental issues. 
Thinning of mōsō bamboo growing on 
Company-owned land adjacent to Lake 
Hamana (Shizuoka, Japan) to prevent 
unwanted effects on nearby land and 
the lake. 
(Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd.)
As part of a marine environmental conservation 
program, a seabed cleanup was conducted in 
Canet de Mar (Catalonia, Spain) in collaboration 
with the environmental organization Thalassa  
and the local city council. 
(Yamaha Motor Europe N.V.)
To celebrate World Environment 
Day, tree-planting and environmental 
awareness activities were carried 
out at facilities across India over a 
one-month period to promote 
environmental awareness among 
employees. 
(Yamaha Motor India Pvt. Ltd.)
 Please visit our website for more information on our other environmental protection activities. 
Examples of Specific Initiatives 
In-House Resins (Commodity 
Plastics and Engineering Plastics) 
Material use rate (%) 
20
40
60
80
100
0
10
30
50
70
90
20302024 2035 2040 2045 2050
Recycled 
materials 
Biomass-based 
materials 
Virgin
materials 

[Page 49]
48
TNFD The Yamaha Motor Group has grown by providing people around the world with freedom of mobility and enriched lives through a diverse portfolio of products that 
allow users to engage with nature in a healthy global environment. Based on this perspective, we conducted an assessment of our nature-related impacts in 
accordance with the framework of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) and organized the information presented below based on the results.    
 Please visit our website for more information on TNFD-related initiatives. 
Scoping Assessment 
Locating Interfaces with Nature 
 Businesses Assessed 
Yamaha Motor has positioned the Motorcycles and Marine 
Products businesses as key businesses in its portfolio 
strategy. As motorcycles (the core of the Land Mobility 
business) and outboard motors (in the Marine Products 
business) together account for more than 70% of total 
revenue, we assessed these two businesses in accordance 
with the Locate, Evaluate, Assess, and Prepare (LEAP) 
approach recommended by the TNFD. 
 Value Chain Assessed 
Using ENCORE, a tool recommended by the TNFD, we 
assessed nature-related dependencies and impacts across 
the upstream value chain, direct operations, and downstream 
activities of the two businesses. 
 The assessment identified significant impacts on nature 
at the furthest upstream stages of the value chain, including 
those associated with the extraction of natural resources. In 
addition, direct operations, such as manufacturing and 
assembly, were found to have significant dependencies on 
water resources and considerable impacts from factors such 
as pollution. Therefore, the assessment focused on raw 
material extraction and direct operations (primary resource 
processing; component manufacturing and assembly). 
 Due to the lack of information currently available for 
assessment, disposal in the downstream value chain was 
identified as a topic for future consideration. 
In addition to business significance, we assessed ecological 
significance using the WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter, WWF 
Water Risk Filter,1 and Aqueduct2 to evaluate the natural 
environment surrounding areas of our facilities. Based on 
this assessment, we identified direct manufacturing sites in 
the following countries as priority areas. 
Based on the results of the analysis using ENCORE, we 
conducted our own evaluation tailored to Yamaha Motor’s 
actual business activities. 
 The evaluation found significant dependencies on the 
fundamental functions of the soil and impacts associated 
with natural resource extraction. In direct operations, key 
dependencies on water and energy supplies, as well as 
impacts associated with pollution and environmental 
contamination, were identified. 
Under Environmental Plan 2050, Yamaha Motor has established 2050 targets related to the environment and nature. To achieve these 
long-term targets, we have set and are pursuing the following medium-term targets, which also support the management of 
nature-related risks and opportunities. 
Indicators Targets 
Use of sustainable raw materials in in-house manufactured components 2027 target: 18%    2030 target: 22% 
Creation of biotope sites at or near manufacturing facilities 2030 target: 5 sites 
Number of trees planted [area] through silvofishery4 mangrove reforestation 2027 target: 370,000 trees [215 ha]
Value Chain Risks Opportunities 
Raw material 
extraction 
Tighter emissions regulations 
•  Ensuring the sustainability of raw materials through expanded use of 
sustainable materials3 
•  Enhanced reputation through the procurement of environmentally 
responsible raw materials 
Natural disasters in raw material production 
regions 
•  Ensuring the sustainability of raw materials through expanded use of 
sustainable materials 
•  Enhanced reputation through the procurement of environmentally 
responsible raw materials 
•  Enhanced corporate value through dialogue and collaboration with 
stakeholders 
•  Advancing biodiversity conservation through collaboration and fundraising 
Suspension of operations in the event that the 
rights of Indigenous Peoples and local 
communities are violated 
Direct operations 
(primary resource 
processing; component 
manufacturing and 
assembly) 
Suspension of operations due to depletion of 
water resources 
•  Ensuring sustainability through improved resource efficiency and greater 
reuse 
Damage to manufacturing sites caused by 
natural disasters —
Loss of biodiversity due to environmental 
pollution 
•  Enhanced corporate value by developing environmentally conscious products 
and promoting product recycling 
We identified nature-related risks and opportunities that the 
Group should address as priorities. Priority risks include 
regulatory matters, natural disasters, and resource 
depletion, while key opportunities include the procurement 
of environmentally responsible raw materials and more 
efficient use of resources. We are also examining response 
measures from a variety of perspectives to avoid and 
mitigate risks as well as to capitalize on opportunities. 
Evaluating Dependencies and Impacts 
Preparing Metrics and Targets 
Assessing Key Risks and Opportunities 
1.  An online tool developed by World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), a global conservation NGO, for assessing the relationship between business activities and natural capital. 
2.  A tool developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) that maps water risk information worldwide. 
3.  A collective term for recycled materials, green materials (including materials produced using renewable energy), and biomass-based materials. 
4. A coined term combining silviculture (forestry) and fishery. 
5 sites
in Japan 
4 sites
in Indonesia
3 sites
in India

[Page 50]
Planning standards review
Feedback (quality and process improvement) 
End-to-end quality assurance
Milestone
Specification quality review
Milestone
Product quality review
Milestone
Planning Development Production 
preparation
Mass 
production 
Sales and 
services 
49
Initiatives to Enhance Quality Initiatives in After-Sales Services 
To provide customers with peace of mind, earn their trust, 
and deliver Kando, Yamaha Motor is engaged in quality 
improvement activities grounded in its Basic Quality Policy. 
 Seeking to be recognized by customers for Yamaha 
Quality, we established YQ2027 (“Yamaha Motor Quality 
2027,” our Companywide medium-term quality policy for 
2025 to 2027). 
 Under YQ2027, we aim to continuously deliver better 
products and experiences to customers and society by 
encouraging every employee to take ownership and drive 
actions that produce tangible results. As part of these efforts, 
we are enhancing the transparency of our compliance 
measures and pursuing four key objectives across both mono 
(products, equipment, etc.) and koto (practices, skills, etc.): 
customer-oriented approach, quality-minded personnel, 
suitable QMS, and transparency.
 In addition, we have established the Product Assurance 
Committee as our top-level decision-making body for quality 
assurance. The committee deliberates on the establishment, 
revision, and abolition of quality policies, initiatives, and 
quality assurance regulations, as well as responses to quality-
related issues, and sees that the resulting measures are 
rolled out to the front lines. It reports the results of its 
deliberations and activities to management at the annual 
Companywide Management Review Meeting held at the end 
of each year. Through direction provided at that meeting, we 
are continuously improving and strengthening our quality 
management system. 
We believe that providing after-sales services and ensuring a 
reliable supply of parts are important responsibilities in 
helping customers fully enjoy their lives with our products. 
Through the experiences customers have at each touchpoint 
with us, we hope to inspire them to become fans of the 
Yamaha Motor brand.
To advance safety through technology, rider skills, and 
connectivity, the Jin-Ki Kanno × Jin-Ki Anzen Safety Vision 
expresses Yamaha Motor’s unique approach to the creation 
of a world free of accidents together with our customers—a 
world in which users can experience the joy and Kando that 
comes from progressing their own skills and abilities while 
having fun at the same time. 
 Our goal is to eliminate traffic fatalities involving Yamaha 
Motor products by 2050. To this end, we believe that it is 
essential not only to have technology aid riders but also to 
improve user skills and to connect people to their machines. 
Specifically, we will work on risk prediction riding assists, 
preventing damage and defensive riding assists, emergency 
avoidance riding assists, and harm mitigation. To implement 
effective measures for reducing traffic fatalities, we are 
researching and analyzing data on accidents worldwide as 
we formulate plans. 
An Initiative to Support the Development of Rider Skills: 
Global Rollout of the Yamaha Riding Feedback System (YRFS) 
As part of Yamaha Riding Academy (YRA), a safety education 
and outreach program designed to help riders acquire safe 
motorcycle riding skills, we have developed and introduced the 
Yamaha Riding Feedback System (YRFS), which helps visualize 
rider skill level. Developed using technologies and insights 
gained through research conducted in the pursuit of Jin-Ki 
Kanno, YRFS provides a graphic representation of riding 
behavior, including acceleration, deceleration, and cornering. 
 The system is currently deployed in seven countries/
regions.* By using YRFS to provide feedback that helps YRA 
participants recognize their achievements and personal 
progress, we will foster a safe, enjoyable, and fulfilling 
motorcycling lifestyle that extends beyond skill development. 
Initiatives in the Motorcycles Business (End-to-End Quality 
Assurance) 
We have established a framework for continuously delivering 
products that appeal to customers. Under this framework, we 
review the progress and readiness of each relevant department 
at key milestones of the process, from product planning and 
concept development, to the start of production. Strict 
milestone gates are in place, and projects cannot proceed to 
the next phase until all criteria have been met. 
Jin-Ki Kanno × Jin-Ki Anzen:   
Our Safety Vision
Safety and Reliability For Yamaha Motor, a company whose core products are mobility solutions, customer safety and reliability are fundamental to its business. 
We sincerely listen to our customers at every stage of our business—from Monozukuri, encompassing product planning, development, 
design, and manufacturing, to sales and after-sales service—and promote initiatives aimed at making Yamaha Motor their preferred 
choice, both now and in the future. 
Materiality Issue: Safety and Reliability—YRA Initiatives 
Targets (2025–2027) Fiscal 2025 Results 
32 countries/regions 35 countries/regions 
6,600 
sessions 
360,000 
participants 
2,200 
sessions 
159,000 
participants 
* Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, China, Brazil, Colombia, and Vietnam 
 Please visit our website for more information on Yamaha Quality. 
Yamaha Technical Academy (YTA) 
Under our “One to One Service” philosophy, we operate the 
Yamaha Technical Academy (YTA), a globally standardized 
technician training program designed to develop high-level 
maintenance skills, expert product knowledge, and reliable 
support. Through our technician certification system, we 
work to improve service skills as well as customer support 
capacity. 
Yamaha World Technician Grand Prix (WTGP) 
WTGP is a global competition in which Yamaha Motor 
technicians from around the world showcase the skills they 
have developed through their work. Qualifying competitions 
are held around the world, with top-performing technicians 
advancing to the WTGP. Through this competition, we not 
only inspire technicians to maintain high motivation and 
further enhance their skills, but also contribute to improving 
customer satisfaction. In addition, by raising awareness of 
the importance of after-sales service among a wider audience, 
WTGP helps invigorate the motorcycle industry as a whole 
and elevate the status of motorcycle technicians. 
 At the WTGP held in November 2025, 22 technicians from 
19 countries/regions advanced from a pool of 35,700 Yamaha 
Motor-certified technicians worldwide and competed for the 
title of world champion based on three criteria: high-level 
maintenance skills, clear communication, and service that 
creates Kando. 
 Please visit our website for more information on YTA. 
 Please visit our website for more information on WTGP 2025. 
 Please visit our website for more information on initiatives in the Motorcycles business. 

[Page 51]
50
Occupational Health and Safety / 
Health and Productivity Management 
The Yamaha Motor Group regards the health and safety of its 
employees as a core management issue that is indispensable 
for business operations and corporate growth. We have 
therefore established the Yamaha Motor Group OSH Basic 
Policy, which builds upon the content of our Sustainability 
Basic Policy, to foster a culture of “Safety and Health First” 
and embed activities aimed at achieving zero occupational 
accidents throughout the Group. With the participation of all 
employees, we continue to pursue the creation of safe and 
comfortable workplaces where all people working at the 
Yamaha Motor Group are physically and mentally healthy, 
can feel safe, and work actively. 
In May 2023, a workplace accident at Yamaha Motor resulted 
in the death of one employee. To ensure that such a serious 
workplace accident never happens again, we have set targets 
and are working toward reducing all occupational accidents 
to zero in accordance with the Yamaha Motor Group OSH 
Basic Policy. 
 In 2025, at Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd., the number of 
occupational accidents resulting in lost workdays or more 
serious outcomes remained unchanged from the previous 
year, while the total number of occupational accidents 
increased. However, comprehensive risk assessments, 
ongoing risk reduction efforts, machinery safety training, 
and the development of additional risk assessment trainers 
helped limit machinery- and equipment-related lost-time 
accidents to just one case. At Group companies, efforts 
to strengthen safety activities have helped establish a 
culture in which occupational accidents of all severities are 
reported and shared. This has contributed to the increase in 
reported incidents. 
 We will continue to promote safety initiatives, including 
tracking and analyzing occupational accidents throughout the 
Group and sharing information to prevent recurrence, with 
the ultimate aim of reducing occupational accidents to zero. 
As a Kando Creating Company, Yamaha Motor aims to provide 
customers with new excitement and more fulfilling lives. 
This requires that each of our employees be healthy in both 
body and mind. We believe this enables them to make full 
use of their passion and abilities, leading to customers’ trust 
in the products and services we offer. We will engage in health 
and productivity management with the participation of all 
employees, which will lead to improved health and productivity. 
Approach to Occupational Health and  
Safety / Health and Productivity Management 
Initiatives to Achieve Zero Occupational 
Accidents / Occupational Accident Statistics 
At Yamaha Motor, the Central Safety and Health Committee 
(chaired by the executive officer and chief general manager of 
the Human Resources & General Affairs Center, and comprising 
occupational health physicians, representative supervisors 
from each division, and the labor union, among others), with 
authority delegated to it by the President and Chief Executive 
Officer, spearheads efforts to provide safe and healthy work 
environments that comply with standards, regulations and 
labor agreements concerning industrial safety and health. 
The committee also formulates medium-term and annual plans 
for activities aimed at achieving zero workplace accidents 
and for promoting health and productivity management. It 
also checks and evaluates progress in a cycle that leads to 
the next round of improvements. 
Promotion Structure 
Health and Productivity Management 
Our health and productivity management initiatives are guided 
by three objectives: preventing health-related incidents, 
improving employee productivity, and helping employees 
maintain the physical and mental well-being needed to stay 
active, motivated, and engaged. To support these objectives, 
we have developed a Health and Productivity Management 
Strategy Map and are implementing a range of related 
initiatives. 
 Based on national guidelines and industry benchmarks, 
we have established 2030 targets and monitor progress on 
an ongoing basis. These targets include maintaining a 100% 
annual health checkup rate, reducing the proportion of 
high-risk individuals for metabolic syndrome (including both 
diagnosed and pre-metabolic syndrome cases) to 18.0% 
(10% below the 2020 level), and reducing the percentage of 
employees taking leave due to mental health issues to 
0.71% (20% below the 2020 level). 
 In 2025, the annual health checkup rate was 100%, while 
the proportion of high risk individuals for metabolic syndrome 
was 19.6% and the percentage of employees taking leave 
due to mental health issues was 1.19%. 
 We will continue to strengthen initiatives such as specific 
health guidance and preventive measures for mental health 
issues, while advancing health and productivity management 
that supports both the physical and mental well-being of our 
employees, and the Company’s sustainable growth. 
Initiatives for Health 
Yamaha Motor conducts workplace risk assessments and 
continuously works to systematically eliminate or reduce risks 
based on the assessment results. To help prevent occupational 
accidents, we have been certified under the international 
standard ISO 45001 since 2023. 
 As of the end of 2025, 19 companies within the Yamaha 
Motor Group, primarily manufacturing subsidiaries, had 
obtained ISO 45001 certification. Furthermore, in order to 
strengthen governance, in 2025 we introduced a unified 
global certification framework that encompasses the Group 
and consolidates certifications under a single system. Going 
forward, we will steadily obtain new certifications and expand 
the unified global certification framework, thereby enhancing 
occupational health and safety standards throughout the 
Yamaha Motor Group.
Occupational Health and Safety Management 
As stated in our Sustainability Basic Policy, we consider the health and safety of our employees to be the 
foundation of our corporate growth and strive to improve our working environments. All employees are involved 
in ensuring health and safety while promoting the creation of more comfortable work environments, which in 
turn facilitates the smooth operation of business, leading to improved productivity. 
Yamaha Motor Group OSH Accident Reduction Targets 
*  The scope of coverage in 2024 was 136 of 138 consolidated subsidiaries, and in 2025 was all 
139 consolidated subsidiaries. 
Occupational Safety Indicators (2025 Results) 
Occupational fatalities and 
permanent disabilities Zero cases
Number of occupational lost-time 
accidents
50% reduction compared with the 
previous year 
Total number of occupational 
accidents
50% reduction compared with the 
previous year 
Yamaha Motor (non-consolidated) Group Companies* 
Occupational fatalities 
and permanent 
disabilities 
0
Occupational 
fatalities 0
Permanent 
disabilities 1
Number of occupational 
lost-time accidents 
12
No change from 
previous year 
Number of 
occupational lost-time 
accidents 
150
19.8% increase from 
previous year 
Total number of 
occupational accidents 
69
4.5% increase from 
previous year 
Total number of 
occupational 
accidents 
747
19.5% increase from 
previous year 

[Page 52]
51
Respect for Human Rights 
Yamaha Motor Group’s Corporate Mission is to be a “Kando 
Creating Company—Offering new excitement and a more 
fulfilling life for people around the world,” and one aspect of 
its Management Principles is “fulfilling social responsibilities 
globally.” Our Human Rights Policy clearly states our 
commitment to respecting the human rights of stakeholders 
involved in the Group’s business activities, including the 
prohibition of all forms of discrimination, forced labor, and 
child labor, the prevention of inhumane treatment, and the 
provision of safe and healthy working environments. This 
policy is based on international standards, including the 
International Bill of Human Rights, the International Labour 
Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work, the UN Global Compact, and the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights. We also ask all 
business partners, including suppliers and distributors, for 
their understanding and support of the policy. 
Basic Approach to Human Rights 
The Group has established various compliance hotlines for 
Group employees and a system for prompt reporting of actual 
or potential violations of laws, regulations, and internal rules, 
including human rights violations. In addition, we have 
established a Human Rights Hotline for External Stakeholders. 
Reports received through the hotline are handled in accordance 
with a standard process that emphasizes dialogue with both 
the reporting party and reported party/person(s) involved, 
from the assessment and investigation of human rights 
concerns to the implementation of corrective measures and 
actions to prevent recurrence. 
 In 2025, the hotline received 18 reports and responded 
appropriately to each case. Going forward, we will continue 
these efforts and ensure that reports lead to meaningful 
corrective action and organizational learning. 
Correction and Remedy We ask our business partners for their understanding of and 
support for our Sustainability Basic Policy and Human Rights 
Policy. Our Sustainability Guideline for Suppliers sets out 
expectations regarding human rights, labor conditions, 
environmental considerations, and ensuring compliance, and 
promotes their implementation in suppliers’ operations. In 
particular, the guideline clearly specifies requirements for 
respecting human rights, including the elimination of 
discrimination, the prohibition of child labor and forced labor, 
the payment of appropriate wages, the avoidance of conflict 
minerals, and the establishment of grievance mechanisms. 
 In addition to obtaining suppliers’ agreement to comply 
with the guideline, we are incorporating human rights-related 
provisions into business agreements to further enhance the 
effectiveness of our Human Rights Policy. As of the end of 
2024, we had achieved our target of obtaining agreement 
from 80% of targeted business partners. We aim to obtain 
agreement from 100% of applicable business partners by 
the end of 2027. 
 Through our human rights due diligence framework, we 
continue to support suppliers in developing and implementing 
human rights policies and in strengthening their capacity to 
address human rights risks. Going forward, we will further 
spread understanding and ensure implementation of these 
policies throughout our supply chain and work toward realizing 
a society in which the dignity of all people is respected. 
Initiatives with Business Partners 
The Code of Ethics, which sets out standards of ethical 
conduct for Group employees, clearly prohibits defamation, 
personal attacks, and the denial of an individual’s dignity 
based on factors such as race, ethnicity, nationality, beliefs, 
personal values, physical characteristics, personality, or family 
background, as well as all forms of harassment. We also promote 
employee awareness through e-learning programs and various 
training initiatives. 
 Since establishing our Human Rights Policy in 2023, we 
have worked to embed the policy throughout our organization 
through the ongoing implementation of human rights e-learning 
programs and comprehension assessments. In 2025, 15,539 
employees (93.1% participation rate) completed human 
rights e-learning training. 
Initiatives for Employees 
Based on our Human Rights Policy, the Yamaha Motor Group 
has engaged in ongoing human rights due diligence since 
2023 across all Group companies and their supply chains, 
enabling us to identify and assess adverse human rights 
impacts and to prevent and mitigate such impacts. For Group 
companies, we conducted risk mapping to identify human 
rights risks. For the supply chain, we are advancing human 
rights due diligence through a four-step process consisting 
of (1) Risk assessment, (2) A Self-Assessment Questionnaire 
(SAQ), (3) Comprehensive evaluation of the risk environment, 
and (4) On-site assessments. 
 As of 2025, we had completed risk assessments for 100% 
of targeted direct material suppliers and collected and 
reviewed SAQs from 80% of them. Using information from 
both assessments, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation 
of risk environments. As a result, we identified approximately 
15% of suppliers as operating in high-risk environments. We 
have begun conducting on-site assessments in phases under 
a three-year plan for these suppliers. 
 On-site assessments revealed that, while awareness of the 
importance of sustainability and human rights is becoming 
more widespread, a significant number of suppliers have yet 
to establish concrete policies and activities tailored to their 
specific circumstances or taken measures to systematically 
promote awareness and implementation both internally 
and externally. In light of these findings, Yamaha Motor is 
supporting improvement efforts, to be followed by audits 
and monitoring activities. Through on-site assessments, we help 
suppliers develop policies appropriate to the growth stage of 
Human Rights Due Diligence 
The Yamaha Motor Group recognizes its responsibility as a corporate citizen and is committed to respecting the human rights 
of all stakeholders involved in its business activities, with the aim of contributing to a society in which the dignity of every 
individual is upheld.      Please visit our website for more information on human rights initiatives. 
their business, provide education and awareness programs, 
and support the formulation of corrective action plans to 
drive the implementation and continuous improvement of 
human rights initiatives. 
 A key feature of our human rights due diligence is that it 
is driven by all business divisions and Group companies, both 
in and outside Japan. Personnel responsible for areas such as 
risk management, procurement, and sales work together to 
advance initiatives that reflect regional characteristics and 
business conditions. These proactive efforts not only contribute 
to improvements among business partners but also enhance 
governance across the Yamaha Motor Group. Going forward, 
we will continue to steadily advance a support-first approach 
to human rights due diligence that is aligned with actual 
conditions in our supply chains. 
 Moreover, we have identified human rights risks as a 
significant risk at the Group level. As such, each organization 
conducts human rights due diligence that reflects regional 
characteristics and business conditions. Doing so helps 
employees deepen their understanding as it connects the 
knowledge gained through e-learning with real workplace 
issues, reinforcing awareness of the importance of respecting 
human rights. 
 We also conduct an annual compliance awareness survey 
to gauge employees’ understanding of human rights. Scores 
for respect for human rights and diversity have remained 
consistently high over the past three years, averaging around 
4.5 on a five-point scale. 
Results of Activities in 2025 
Incorporation of human rights clauses 
into contracts Dealerships: 83% (2027 target: 100%) 
Memorandum of understanding 
return rate Suppliers: 90% (2027 target: 100%) 

[Page 53]
Governance
Female Officers
Non-Japanese Officers
Directors
3/9
Audit & Supervisory
Board Members
2/5
Directors
2/9
Audit & Supervisory
Board Members
0/5
3
2
Outside Officers
Directors
5/9
Audit & Supervisory
Board Members 
3/5
5
3
2
52
Directors and Audit 
& Supervisory 
Board Members 
(As of March 26, 2026) 
Directors Outside Directors 
Years Served 4 − − − 4 2 1 − −
Age 63 60 58 58 54 71 60 69 65
Gender Male Male Male Male Female Male Female Male Female 
Independence     
Global Experience ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○
Corporate Management ● ● ● ● ● ●
New Business 
Development / M&A ● ● ● ●
Finance / Accounting ● ●
Procurement / 
Manufacturing ● ● ●
Technology / R&D ● ● ● ● ● ●
Marketing / Branding ● ● ● ● ●
IT / DX ● ● ●
E Environment /  
Carbon Neutrality ● ● ● ● ●
S DE&I / Human Resources 
Development ● ● ●
G Legal /  
Risk Management ● ● ● ● ●
Motofumi 
Shitara 
Toshiaki 
Ibata 
Takuya 
Kinoshita 
Kenichi 
Muraki 
Jin Song 
Montesano 
Keiji 
Masui 
Sarah L. 
Casanova 
Naoki 
Ono 
Junko 
Sunaga 
The composition of both the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board is designed with consideration for the overall balance of 
knowledge, experience, and abilities, as well as diversity and appropriate size. The Board of Directors consists of nine members (including five 
outside directors), while the Audit & Supervisory Board consists of five members (including three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members). 
In addition, among the skills possessed by each Director and Audit & Supervisory Board member, the Company has identified the following as 
especially important. 
■ Directors   
■  Audit & Supervisory  
Board Members
 Please refer to the Notice of the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders for reasons for selection and definition of skills.

[Page 54]
53
Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members From the Chairman
I will help enhance our  
corporate value through 
responsible oversight.
Keiji Masui
Independent Outside Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors
I am the first outside director at Yamaha Motor to be appointed Chairman of the Board of 
Directors. I believe the role expected of me is to further enhance the independence and 
transparency of the Board, and to support Yamaha Motor in enhancing its corporate value over 
the medium to long term through effective oversight of management.
 What I prioritize most in Board operations is establishing a clear distinction between issues 
where authority should be appropriately delegated to those executing business matters, and 
those in which the Board itself should be deeply involved. While creating an environment in 
which the executive team can conduct management promptly, the Board must focus its 
discussions on topics that are central to creating corporate value, such as the direction of our 
management strategy, the viability of resource allocation, and the adequacy of risk appetite.
 Currently, some businesses and regions face ongoing severe business conditions. Amid such 
circumstances, the role of the Board becomes even more important. The Board will swiftly 
outline the direction for strategic businesses and U.S. operations, enhance the quality and 
speed of decision-making, and continuously assess the competitiveness of Yamaha Motor’s 
core businesses from the standpoint of products, investments, and production systems.
 In recent years, the quality of Board discussions has steadily improved as a result of revisions to 
proposal-making standards and the information-sharing process, as well as more comprehensive 
advance briefings. On the other hand, I still see cases where materials are overly detailed or key 
discussion points are not sufficiently narrowed down. Going forward, it is essential that directors 
handling business execution transcend the boundaries of their own areas and engage more 
proactively in discussions from a Groupwide and medium- to long-term perspective. The structure 
of the Board underwent a major update in fiscal 2026. In addition to making the execution 
structure more agile, the appointment of new outside directors is expected to strengthen oversight 
by helping to eliminate fixed preconceptions. I consider this change an opportunity to further 
improve the quality of Board discussions. Moreover, with the establishment of the Nomination 
Committee and the Compensation Committee in 2025, the two functions have been separated, 
thereby increasing the transparency and depth of discussions regarding the appointment of 
officers. However, this does not change the importance of the Board’s independent examination 
of and ultimate responsibility for these matters.
 Under the new management structure, Yamaha Motor will remain conscious of balancing 
oversight and execution as it pursues more sophisticated governance. However, we must not 
become complacent with the status quo, but rather constantly question what constitutes the 
optimal governance structure. By emphasizing substantive effectiveness over governance—
regardless of the forms it might take—and ensuring the Board operates in a manner that earns 
the trust of capital markets, I intend to contribute to the enhancement of corporate value over 
the long term.
Audit & Supervisory Board 
Members (Full-Time) Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 
Years Served 3 1 7 3 −
Age 64 61 71 64 64
Gender Male Male Male Female Female 
Independence    
Global Experience ○ ○ ○ ○
Corporate 
Management ●
New Business 
Development / M&A ●
Finance / 
Accounting ● ● ● ● ●
Procurement / 
Manufacturing 
Technology / 
R&D 
Marketing / 
Branding ● ●
IT / DX ●
E
Environment / 
Carbon 
Neutrality 
S
DE&I / Human 
Resources 
Development 
● ●
G Legal / Risk 
Management ● ● ● ● ●
Tadashi 
Tsumabuki 
Takeo 
Noda 
Masatake 
Yone 
Ayumi 
Ujihara 
Etsuko 
Kobayashi 

[Page 55]
54
Dialogue between Outside Directors and Shareholders 
Montesano: The role of outside directors has become 
increasingly important at listed companies. Yamaha Motor is 
continually working to build a stronger corporate governance 
structure, and the composition of the Board of Directors is 
diverse. This includes five directors and Audit & Supervisory 
Board members who are women and two directors from outside 
Japan. Moreover, the directors have a wealth of expertise 
across a wide range of fields, including global marketing, 
corporate transformation, M&As, ESG, human capital, 
procurement, and supply chain management. 
In recent years, the role expected of outside directors has 
shifted from merely monitoring operations and ensuring 
stability to encouraging the management team to take on 
challenges for growth. Yamaha Motor’s management team is 
also aware of the need to seek more effective ways to 
achieve Medium-Term Management Plan (2025–2027). The 
challenges are “how do we get there” and “how do we 
increase speed and agility.” From that standpoint, I think it is 
very important to incorporate outside perspectives. 
Masui: I have had a long career in the automotive industry, 
particularly in manufacturing, so I hope to apply that 
experience to the management of Yamaha Motor, which 
operates in the same broad field of mobility. In addition, 
from my many years of management experience, one point I 
constantly focus on at Board meetings is the extent to which 
senior management and those responsible for business 
execution communicate openly and candidly. 
 At Yamaha Motor, frank exchanges of opinions take place 
not just at Board meetings but in all kinds of settings, and I 
view this as a strong positive. I intend to continue contributing 
to further enhance that kind of communication. 
Montesano: The importance of the Board of Directors’ 
oversight duties remains unchanged and I believe these 
duties are being performed effectively at Yamaha Motor. In 
addition to conducting regular audits and reviews, we check 
on specific projects at monthly Board meetings. We follow up 
on matters requiring detailed review, prioritizing those identified 
as having particular concerns. Each month, the CEO starts his 
report by giving the “bad news” first, and the directors expect 
detailed feedback on these issues. But to reiterate, the role of 
an outside director is not just to keep an eye on things. 
Masui: One specific example is our response to regulatory 
certification issues in 2024 when there were incidents of 
inappropriate handling of motorcycle testing and certification 
applications. The Board reviewed the management team’s 
response strategy for this matter and proposed additional 
measures where it is deemed necessary. In particular, such 
problems often stem from resource shortages or issues 
related to the organization’s culture, so we see the need to 
secure sufficient human and technical resources. The 
responsibility of outside directors extends beyond 
monitoring or simply offering advice; they should also 
propose effective solutions and see that those solutions are 
reflected in management’s decision-making. 
Masui: I think very highly of the open discussions and lively 
communication that take place at Yamaha Motor’s Board 
meetings, as well as at the CEO roundtable conference and 
other forums. There is a culture in which executive officers and 
department general managers can express their opinions 
frankly, including offering opposing opinions. I believe Yamaha 
Perspectives and Roles  
of Outside Directors in 
Enhancing Corporate Value 
In an increasingly uncertain business environment, the role expected of 
outside directors is expanding beyond traditional oversight to encompass 
effective involvement in enhancing corporate value. Yamaha Motor has 
been engaging in more in-depth discussions on topics such as the 
establishment of the Nomination Committee and the Compensation 
Committee, human resources strategy, and capital allocation. 
Dialogue sessions between our outside directors and shareholders 
began in 2023. At the second session, we held a panel discussion for 
investors in which outside directors openly answered questions about the 
strengths of and challenges faced by the Board of Directors. 
Keiji Masui 
Outside Director 
Jin Song 
Montesano
Outside Director 
Q
Please share what roles you feel you are 
expected to fulfill as outside directors 
and how the position should be involved 
in management.
Q
Compared with boards at other companies, 
what are Yamaha Motor’s strengths? 
What about areas for improvement? 
Note: This dialogue took place in December 2025.

[Page 56]
55
Motor’s Spirit of Challenge that has existed since the Company’s 
founding is evident in more formal settings like these as well. 
 Comments from outside directors may sometimes be 
quite blunt, but I feel that the executive team takes what is 
said to heart, resulting in deeper discussions. During his 
tenure, Chairman Katsuaki Watanabe ran meetings 
appropriately, and I give him high marks not only for conducting 
proceedings with calm and composure but also for giving 
everyone an opportunity to speak, even in difficult situations. 
 At the same time, there is still room for improvement. 
Directors in charge of business execution tend to speak 
mainly in terms of their own fields of responsibility, but I feel 
discussions would be more substantive if more opinions took 
on a Companywide perspective. In addition, although topics 
at Board meetings have been narrowed down, we tend to run 
out of time for discussions when there are numerous items to 
report. Explanations can sometimes take up so much time that 
discussions do not move beyond the surface level, so we need to 
adopt a framework that fosters more in-depth discussions. 
Montesano: I also serve as an internal director on the board 
of directors at LIXIL Corporation, which gives me a basis for 
comparison. I think one of Yamaha Motor’s greatest strengths 
is its Spirit of Challenge. As such, its Board does not shy 
away from difficult discussions. These discussions are candid 
and honest, and one can feel management’s strong 
commitment to accept and act upon what is said. Another 
positive point is the lineup of highly capable independent 
outside directors, enabling diverse exchanges of opinions. 
 On the other hand—and this is true for many companies—
there is a tendency to focus too much on short-term 
perspectives when faced with trying situations. This is an 
area for improvement. 
 In such circumstances, outside directors must emphasize 
the importance of keeping the Company’s long-term direction 
in mind and strive to pull management back toward it. It is 
important to strike a balance between addressing short-term 
issues and ensuring alignment with long-term strategy. 
 Furthermore, there are gaps in expertise between the 
outside directors and the management team in certain fields, so 
discussions are necessary to bridge those gaps. For example, 
in discussions about how to leverage Yamaha Motor’s powerful 
brand value as a source of differentiation, there were aspects 
that the management team had not fully processed. The same 
is true of discussions about human resources strategy. Human 
capital is my area of responsibility at LIXIL, and I believe that 
by reflecting my expertise in Board discussions, Yamaha 
Motor’s approach to human capital has steadily evolved. 
Montesano: In our ongoing discussions about improving 
governance, the difficulty of conducting high-quality 
discussions on compensation, nominations, and succession 
planning under the framework of the former Executive 
Personnel Committee became an issue. To enhance 
independence and transparency, a plan was adopted to 
establish a Nomination Committee and a Compensation 
Committee, and the outside directors fully supported this. 
 I think that separating the two committees has significantly 
improved the quality of discussions. Time was limited with the 
previous Executive Personnel Committee, so discussions 
tended to remain shallow. Since splitting up responsibilities, 
each committee is now able to conduct in-depth discussions 
from a specialized perspective and decision-making has 
improved. Compensation and nominations are very important 
areas—areas in which independent outside directors can 
contribute to creating corporate value. I believe that 
assigning the right person to the right role has a major impact 
on corporate value. 
Masui: The Board of Directors considered which organizational 
design would best strengthen the Company’s governance. 
Given that the “Company with an Audit & Supervisory Board” 
framework, as defined under Japan’s Companies Act, offers the 
advantage of strong auditing functions, we decided to retain the 
current arrangement for the foreseeable future. 
 At the same time, we wanted to incorporate the 
advantages of a “Company with Nominating Committee, 
etc.” so the former Executive Personnel Committee was 
restructured into separate committees for nomination and 
compensation. Outside directors serve as chairpersons of 
each to enhance independence and transparency. This is an 
important step toward stronger governance. We intend to 
continuously review this framework and to strive for more 
proactive committee operations, which includes proposing a 
full transition to the Company with Nominating Committee, 
etc. structure if the need arises. 
Montesano: The role of the Nomination Committee is to 
draw up carefully considered and effective succession plans 
for the CEO, directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board 
members, as well as to optimize the composition of the 
Board of Directors. Over the long term, Yamaha Motor will be 
facing major changes in the makeup of its industry, such as 
electrification and digital transformation, so I think the Board 
should incorporate more expertise in these fields. 
 We have already begun establishing processes for 
succession planning and we are treating this as a key issue 
that will connect directly to creating value. Even so, it will 
likely take about five years before results become apparent. I 
feel our immediate task is to set up a talent pipeline for 
cultivating potential successors at the CEO level. While 
Yamaha Motor has many capable individuals who have come 
up through planned rotations and training programs, the 
challenge is to establish a framework for identifying, 
developing, and continuously evaluating future leadership 
candidates. Currently, we are working with the management 
team to introduce frameworks and evaluation criteria to 
clarify the qualities required of future leaders of Yamaha 
Motor. We are using advanced methods like talent mapping 
and targeted training programs. Yamaha Motor needs leaders 
who can envision the future for its businesses and move the 
Company forward, and developing such talent is critical. 
Masui: It has been one year since I became chairperson of the 
Compensation Committee. Its members have global experience 
and their opinions from diverse perspectives have been very 
refreshing as well as highly valuable for the Group. 
 The Compensation Committee is deepening its understanding 
of the new compensation system introduced in fiscal 2024 
and examining specific aspects for future improvements. For 
example, the committee conducted simulations to estimate 
the impact of applying a new evaluation method to fiscal 
2025’s performance. Outside directors also participated in 
Dialogue between Outside Directors and Shareholders 
Q
What was the context for creating  
a separate Nomination Committee and 
Compensation Committee? What are their 
roles and what issues does each face?

[Page 57]
56
Dialogue between Outside Directors and Shareholders 
this quantitative analysis, so  the process evolved from merely 
hearing the results to verifying them ourselves. This brought 
about deeper discussions based on a greater sense of conviction, 
which is a significant achievement. Moreover, creating a separate 
committee dedicated specifically to compensation has 
improved the quality of discussions and allowed us to hear 
opinions on appropriateness and transparency from global 
perspectives. Issues going forward will include how to handle 
compensation for non-Japanese executives and how to ensure 
consistency between performance and compensation among 
senior management. We intend to strengthen coordination with 
the Nomination Committee and contribute to sustainable 
enhancement of corporate value. 
Masui: Currently, additional U.S. tariffs and other factors 
have created an extremely difficult business environment for 
companies in the mobility industry, including Yamaha Motor.  
I believe that the role of an outside director is to impart a 
greater sense of urgency to executives from an external 
perspective and provide the necessary impetus. We 
continually hold discussions with the executive team not 
only about specific matters but also general issues. 
 In concrete terms, restructuring the global production 
framework to minimize the impact of exchange rates and 
tariffs is a key issue for our core Motorcycles and Marine 
Products businesses. Moreover, in a challenging business 
environment, in order to make R&D investments in a 
balanced manner it is necessary to clearly set priorities. 
Another key issue for any manufacturer is maintaining a 
strong competitive advantage in terms of Monozukuri. 
 The goal is to enhance the Company’s overall soundness 
and achieve sustainable growth by sticking to development 
timelines and keeping production preparations on schedule, 
while reinforcing systems for reliably achieving planned unit 
sales and translating them into revenue. As an outside 
director, I continue to take this perspective in discussions 
with management. 
Montesano: One reason for Yamaha Motor’s outstanding 
track record over its long history is a strong culture of taking 
on new challenges. Proactively trying new things and a 
willingness to repeatedly experiment are important 
elements supporting corporate health, and this culture is a 
strength for Yamaha Motor. 
 On the other hand, clearly defining priorities has not 
always been a strong point. However, changes in the external 
environment present an excellent opportunity to review the 
business portfolio and reconsider what really must be 
prioritized. Clearly outlining capital allocation and investment 
themes, and improving the quality of decision-making will 
lead to enhanced corporate value over the long term. 
 Another point I want to emphasize is simplification. With 
the increasingly complex business environment, the complexity 
of manufacturing has risen correspondingly, and selection 
and concentration are key drivers for bolstering corporate 
resilience. 
 As an outside director, I want to encourage the management 
team to bring greater clarity to decision-making. Clearly defining 
this process will lead to greater agility, strengthen the Company’s 
ability to respond during difficult times, and support it over the 
long term. Being able to discuss such topics at meetings of the 
Board is extremely valuable and the management team 
deserves praise for being open and receptive. 
Masui: The management team always takes feedback from 
outside directors seriously. I think many issues have no easy 
answers and come with their fair share of complications, but 
I believe the team’s attitude of valuing external insights is 
extremely beneficial. 
Masui: Yamaha Motor’s headline products are not only 
practical as means of transportation but also as ways to have 
fun and enjoy leisure time, and the resultant value this 
creates is noteworthy. However, there are still issues to 
overcome if we are to fully leverage such value. 
 In overseas markets in particular, I feel that the Company 
still lacks all-inclusive value offerings aligned with customers’ 
lifestyles. While the products themselves are high quality, 
work to add value through intangibles such as financing or a 
wealth of post-purchase customer experiences remains 
somewhat limited. In the marine products sector, the 
importance of intangible features such as connected 
functions and digital services is growing rapidly, but Yamaha 
Motor still has work to do in this area. Going forward, I 
believe it will be important to make full use of our brand 
value and provide comprehensive solutions that include not 
just products but also services and experiences that forge 
long-term relationships with customers and thereby enhance 
corporate value. 
Montesano: One of Yamaha Motor’s greatest opportunities 
for creating corporate value going forward is user experiences 
that evoke the brand—in other words, innovating the end-
user experience. At present, the focus is primarily on the 
products themselves, but user feedback indicates there is 
further room for improvement in providing more fulfilling 
user experiences and seamless connectivity. While the 
quality of engines, hardware, and design is high, I think there 
is still room to further enhance product value by integrating 
tangible and intangible elements to provide experiences that 
surpass those of competitors. 
 The Company must also address changes in user 
demographics. In particular, the existing customer base in 
the North American market is aging, making the issue of 
attracting a younger generation of consumers important. 
These consumers seek different kinds of value and 
accurately capturing their needs requires ramping up 
strategic marketing, consumer insight analysis, and data 
analytics. These are areas in which Yamaha Motor is now 
investing and I believe they will be key to generating future 
growth and competitiveness. 
Q
Please outline the progress of the Board’s 
discussions and the issues you face in 
creating a profit structure resilient to 
changes in the operating environment 
and in reinforcing management 
foundations over the long term. 
Q
From the perspective of corporate value, 
are there any aspects of Yamaha Motor’s 
appeal that have not been fully 
communicated to the stock market or 
that warrant greater recognition? 

[Page 58]
General Meeting of Shareholders 
Business Execution 
Business sectors, functional sectors, corporate sectors, and subsidiaries
Board of Directors 
9 directors 
(including 5 outside directors) 
Chairperson: Outside DirectorNomination 
Committee 
Compensation 
Committee 
President, Chief Executive Officer 
and Representative Director 
(CEO)
Executive Officers including CxOs 
Audit & Supervisory 
Board Members / 
Audit & Supervisory Board
5 Audit & Supervisory 
Board members 
(including 3 outside Audit & 
Supervisory Board members) 
Accounting Auditor 
Integrated 
Auditing 
Division 
Management 
Committee 
Sustainability Committee 
Global Executive Committee 
Global Risk & Compliance 
Management Committee 
Human Capital Management 
Committee 
Appointment / Dismissal Appointment / Dismissal Appointment / Dismissal 
Appointment / 
Dismissal / 
Supervision 
Seeking advice / 
Making recommendations 
Seeking advice / 
Making recommendations Instruction / Reporting 
Instruction / Reporting 
Audit 
Audit Accounting audit
Internal auditing
Coordination Reporting the status 
of business execution Coordination 
Coordination 
Main committees
57
Corporate Governance 
To ensure the implementation of the Company’s growth strategies for the future, Yamaha 
Motor’s Board of Directors fosters an environment that supports appropriate risk-taking and 
decisive decision-making by management, and it works to comprehensively understand and 
appropriately oversee issues and risks associated with the implementation of the Company’s 
management strategies from the viewpoint of its responsibility to various stakeholders, 
including shareholders and investors. 
 In terms of the Company’s approach to corporate governance, this structure is designed to 
facilitate speedy and decisive decision-making as well as appropriate, transparent, and fair 
supervision and monitoring. Accordingly, we have formulated the Corporate Governance 
Guidelines and put them into practice in an appropriate manner. 
Yamaha Motor supplies various kinds of products and services to markets around the world, 
including personal mobility solutions, marine products, industrial robots, vehicle engines, and 
industrial-use unmanned helicopters. Overseas sales account for more than 90% of the 
Company’s consolidated net sales. Starting with the principal concept of developing and 
producing locally where the products are used, we engage in development, procurement, 
production, sales, and other activities on the global stage. 
 To sustainably advance our business activities, we believe an effective approach is to 
structure a corporate governance system consisting of the Board of Directors, made up of 
internal directors (who are familiar with the Company’s customer characteristics, products, 
business operations, and functions) and outside directors (who have a wealth of knowledge in 
global corporate management), and the Audit & Supervisory Board (which includes outside 
members with professional knowledge in areas including accounting, legal affairs, and 
management administration). To ensure swift business execution under this corporate 
governance system, the Company appoints executive officers, to whom the Board of Directors 
delegates matters related to the timely execution of business. 
Corporate Governance System (As of March 26, 2026) 
Approach to Corporate Governance 
History of Strengthening the Corporate Governance System 
Corporate Governance Structure 
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Improvement 
of operating 
structure 
2001: Introduction of Executive Personnel Committee 
(Nomination Committee/Compensation Committee) 
Establishment of Corporate Governance Guidelines 
Implementation of Board of Directors effectiveness evaluation 
Abolition of takeover defense measures 
Executive 
structure 
2001: Introduction of executive officer system 
2007: Appointment of outside directors 
2009: Appointment of first woman director 
Appointment of non-Japanese executive officers 
Separation of chairman of the Board of Directors 
and chief executive officer (CEO) roles 
Number of 
directors 10 10 12 11 11 13 11 11 10 10 10 10 10 9 9
Of whom, 
independent 
outside 
directors [%] 
2
[20]
2
[20]
2
[17]
2
[18]
2
[18]
3
[23]
4
[36]
4
[36]
4
[40]
4
[40]
5
[50]
5
[50]
5
[50]
5
[56]
5
[56]
Of whom, 
women 
directors 
1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2 2 3 3
Executive 
remuneration 
system 
2011: Inclusion of stock options in the stock compensation plan 
Overall revision of the system (compensation further 
linked to performance and to provide long-term incentives) 
Introduction of performance-linked 
share compensation system 
Summary of 
the 
medium-
term 
management 
plan 
Stabilization 
of a 
profitable 
structure 
(V-shaped 
recovery in 
results) 
Toward sustainable growth 
(expansion of business 
scale and enhancement of 
profitability) 
A unique company that 
continues to achieve 
challenging milestones 
(management emphasizing 
ROE and cash flows) 
Taking on the renewed 
challenge of achieving net 
sales of ¥2 trillion 
Strengthening of 
sustainability measures 
Raising the 
competitiveness 
of core 
businesses once 
again 
As a Kando Creating Company, part of our Corporate Mission is to offer new excitement and a more fulfilling life for people all over the 
world. To achieve this goal, Yamaha Motor aims to enhance corporate value through sustained growth attained via its medium- and long-
term strategies and measures. To this end, the Company has put into place systems and frameworks that enable rapid decision-making and 
the proper supervision and monitoring of business execution. 
 Please refer to the Corporate Governance Guidelines section of our website for more details. 
From 2025: Separation of the Nomination 
Committee and the Compensation Committee 

[Page 59]
58
Board of 
Directors 
Audit & Supervisory 
Board 
Nomination 
Committee 
Compensation 
Committee 
Management 
Committee 
Composition 
9 directors 
(including 5 outside 
directors) 
5 Audit & Supervisory 
Board members 
(including 3 outside 
Audit & Supervisory 
Board members) 
3 outside directors 
1 outside Audit & 
Supervisory Board 
member 
2 outside directors 
1 outside Audit & 
Supervisory Board 
member 
9 executive officers 
(including the CEO) 
Chairperson 
Keiji Masui 
Outside Director 
Tadashi Tsumabuki 
 Audit & Supervisory 
Board Member 
(Full-Time) 
Jin Song Montesano 
Outside Director 
Sarah L. Casanova 
Outside Director 
Motofumi Shitara 
CEO 
Objective / Role 
To ensure the implementation 
of growth strategies, the 
Board of Directors fosters an 
environment that supports 
appropriate risk-taking and 
firm decision-making by 
management, and it works to 
comprehensively understand 
and appropriately oversee 
issues and risks associated 
with the implementation of 
management strategies from 
the viewpoint of its 
responsibility to various 
stakeholders, including 
shareholders and investors. 
Based on its fiduciary 
responsibility to shareholders 
and as an independent body 
from the Board of Directors, 
the Audit & Supervisory 
Board conducts audits of the 
legality and appropriateness 
of directors’ execution of 
duties, as well as of the 
internal control systems, 
business performance, and 
financial position of the 
Company and its subsidiaries.
The Nomination Committee 
deliberates on, decides, and 
makes recommendations on 
proposals to the Board of 
Directors regarding the 
appointment and dismissal of 
the CEO, directors, and Audit 
& Supervisory Board 
members, and on process 
checks for the appointment 
and dismissal of executive 
officers and fellows.
The Compensation 
Committee reviews and 
revises the compensation 
system for the CEO, directors, 
executive officers, and 
fellows, and deliberates on, 
decides, and makes 
recommendations on 
proposals made to the Board 
of Directors regarding 
performance evaluation and 
performance-linked 
compensation for specific 
officers. 
The Management Committee 
deliberates on matters 
related to business execution 
and aims to expedite 
decision-making. In principle, 
meetings are held at least 
once a month and at other 
times as necessary. 
Activities in Fiscal 2025 
Number of 
Meetings 
13 19
From April 2025
Nomination Committee: 5 
Compensation Committee: 4 
(As the former Executive Personnel Committee: 4)
24
Main Matters 
Considered 
•  Comprehensive 
Companywide management 
strategies 
•  Sustainability management 
• Global Group governance 
•  Human capital 
management 
•  Audit policy, plan, and 
division of roles 
•  Audit report and audit 
summary 
•  Evaluation and selection of 
the Accounting Auditor 
•  Audit & Supervisory Board 
effectiveness evaluation 
•  Proposals for the appointment 
and dismissal of the CEO, 
directors, and Audit & 
Supervisory Board members
•  Process checks for 
appointment and dismissal 
of executive officers and 
fellows
•  Selection of candidates for 
senior management positions 
and their development plans 
•  Review and improvement of 
the executive remuneration 
system
•  Deliberations on 
performance-based 
compensation  
• Key management issues 
•  Large-scale investments 
and financing 
 Full-time director, full-time Audit & Supervisory Board member   Outside director, outside Audit & Supervisory Board member   Executive officer 
Corporate Governance 
Approach to the Composition of the Board 
of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board 
The Board of Directors supports the Company’s sustainable 
growth and enhances corporate and brand value under the 
Corporate Mission to be a Kando Creating Company. To ensure 
the effective implementation of growth strategies, the Board of 
Directors supports appropriate risk-taking and decision-making 
by management personnel, and applies a multifaceted approach 
to understanding and appropriately overseeing issues and risks 
from multiple perspectives associated with the implementation 
of management strategies from the viewpoint of its responsibility 
to stakeholders, including shareholders and investors. 
 Based on its fiduciary responsibility to shareholders and as 
an independent body from the Board of Directors, the Audit & 
Supervisory Board conducts audits of the legality and 
appropriateness of directors’ execution of duties, as well as of 
internal control frameworks, business performance, financial 
position, and other matters of the Company and its subsidiaries. 
 Based on the above, the composition of the Board of Directors 
and the Audit & Supervisory Board is designed with consideration 
for the overall balance of knowledge, experience, and abilities, 
as well as diversity and appropriate size. 
Main Boards and Committees  (As of March 26, 2026) 
To ensure the transparency of the deliberation process of the 
Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee and 
the objectivity and appropriateness of reports they submit to 
the Board of Directors, the chairpersons of both committees 
will be selected from among the outside directors, and the 
majority of committee members will be outside officers. In 
principle, both committees will meet at least six times a year. 
Nomination Committee  (As of March 26, 2026) 
Chairperson Jin Song Montesano, Outside Director (Independent) 
Member Keiji Masui, Outside Director (Independent) 
Member Naoki Ono, Outside Director (Independent) 
Member Masatake Yone, Outside Audit & Supervisory Board 
Member (Independent) 
Compensation Committee  (As of March 26, 2026)
Chairperson Sarah L. Casanova, Outside Director (Independent) 
Member Junko Sunaga, Outside Director (Independent) 
Member Ayumi Ujihara, Outside Audit & Supervisory Board 
Member (Independent) 
Nomination Committee and 
Compensation Committee 
(President and Representative Director Motofumi Shitara attends meetings of both committees 
as an observer.) 

[Page 60]
59
The Company conducts an annual analysis and evaluation of the overall effectiveness of the Board of Directors, including its roles and 
responsibilities, with the Corporate Governance Division serving as the secretariat, in an effort to drive continuous improvement. 
Issues Identified in Fiscal 2024 Evaluation 
Issue 1  Enhance discussions of comprehensive Companywide management strategies 
Issue 2  Conduct comprehensive discussions on sustainability 
Issue 3  Strengthen global Group governance 
Issue 4  Enhance discussions of human resources strategies to achieve effective human capital management 
Issue 5  Provide more opportunities for communication between outside and internal directors 
Evaluation 
Results from 
Fiscal 2024 
Status of 
Response to 
Issues 
Identified in 
Fiscal 2024 
To address these issues, the Company’s Board of Directors deliberated on core businesses, strategic businesses, and 
new businesses based on the direction of the business portfolio established in the Medium-Term Management Plan. 
The Board also discussed portfolio management in regard to the appropriate allocation and management of resources. 
The Board thoroughly considered sustainability, global Group governance, and human capital management with the aim 
of sharing the big picture position and conducting comprehensive discussions. 
 As a result, the survey indicated that all issues were being addressed to a certain degree, but also identified 
some issues with room for further improvement and recognized the need for continued efforts. 
Subjects: All Board of Directors members  
•  Self-evaluation: Self-evaluation using the following four evaluation items, based on the framework of the contracted third-party organization  
(1) Role of the Board of Directors  (2) Composition of the Board of Directors  (3) Discussions by the Board of Directors  (4) Accountability 
of the Board of Directors 
•  Survey consisting of questionnaires conducted from an objective viewpoint by the third-party organization
•  Sharing of the results of the effectiveness evaluation and deliberation on issues that need to be addressed at the Board of Directors meeting 
Board Effectiveness Evaluation 
Corporate Governance 
Evaluation 
Results from 
Fiscal 2025 
The evaluation confirmed that the Board of 
Directors has actively and continuously 
carried out effective discussions and refined 
initiatives to improve corporate value in the 
medium to long term and achieve sustainable 
growth amid the dramatic changes in the 
business environment. In addition, by steadily 
addressing the issues identified in the 
previous year, the Board of Directors has 
ensured effectiveness, including in progress 
toward the Long-Term Vision for 2030. 
Points for Further Improvement of Board of Directors Effectiveness 
Issue 1   Enhance discussions of comprehensive Companywide 
management strategies 
Issue 2  Strengthen global Group governance 
Issue 3   Enhance discussions of human resources strategies to 
achieve effective human capital management 
In addition, we will promote the following measures to improve the 
quality of discussions at Board of Directors meetings. 
• Selection of appropriate agenda items 
•  Enhancement of explanatory materials and allocation of 
sufficient time for deliberation 
Evaluation 
Process 
Initiatives to Enhance Effectiveness 
One of the key strengths of the Company’s Board of Directors 
is the active exchange of opinions informed by the perspectives 
of experienced outside officers. To encourage open and 
constructive discussion, opportunities are provided not only 
during Board meetings but also through other forums. 
 In fiscal 2025, we revised the Board of Directors agenda 
standards in order to allocate more time to discussions on 
important themes and management strategies. Through these 
efforts, we aim to strengthen the supervisory function of the 
Board of Directors while accelerating executive decision-
making. In fiscal 2026, we established an organizational 
structure of three management committees—Technology, 
Manufacturing & Procurement, and Marketing—each chaired by an 
internal director. By strengthening collaboration between these 
committees, we will enhance the quality and speed of 
Companywide decision-making and further improve business 
execution capabilities.
CEO Roundtable Conference (Participants: CEO, outside directors, 
and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members) 
•  Conduct non-financial evaluations, including the CEO’s execution 
of management responsibilities, through strategic dialogue with 
the CEO  
Executive Discussion Meeting (Participants: Directors and Audit & 
Supervisory Board members) 
•  Facilitate candid discussions on mid- to long-term management 
strategies and key business issues, enabling the exchange of 
views and information 
Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Outside Directors 
Forum (Participants: Outside directors and Audit & Supervisory 
Board members) 
•  Hold regular meetings to ensure that outside directors can obtain 
sufficient information while maintaining their independence
Establishment of Technology Management Committee, 
Manufacturing & Procurement Management Committee,  
and Marketing Management Committee  
(Each committee is chaired by the internal director responsible for 
that function; Members: Relevant executive officers) 
•  From fiscal 2026, we adopted a structure aimed at building a 
more resilient company whereby three internal directors have 
clearly defined areas of responsibility. 
•  The three management committees work closely together to 
enable optimized Companywide decision-making. 

[Page 61]
60
Remuneration System for Executives 
In order to ensure the appropriateness as well as the transparency and effectiveness of the deliberation process regarding items relating 
to executive remuneration, the Compensation Committee (voluntarily established by the Company and composed of a majority of 
outside directors) conducts pertinent assessments and reports its findings to the Board of Directors. Decisions on remuneration for each 
individual director are made at Board of Directors meetings in accordance with the basic policy after discussions with and/or reports 
from the Compensation Committee. Moreover, Audit & Supervisory Board members discuss and determine the specific amounts of their 
own base compensation. In conjunction with the start of the Medium-Term Management Plan from 2025, we have expanded 
performance-linked compensation and changed the compensation ratio for directors and executive officers. 
Basic Policy 
•  To be a Kando Creating Company, Yamaha Motor encourages its 
executives to the maximum extent possible to perform their professional 
duties in accordance with its Management Principles and Action Guidelines. 
•  Toward realizing the Company’s Long-Term Vision for 2030, executive 
remuneration shall offer strong motivation for achieving targets in the 
Medium-Term Management Plan and other plans. 
•  Remuneration shall function as an incentive for achieving sustainable 
growth of corporate value, the benefits of which shall be shared by 
management and shareholders. 
•  Remuneration amounts shall be set at a level that enables the Company 
to secure and retain diverse, outstanding human resources suitable for 
the roles and responsibilities to be carried out by management. 
•  Yamaha Motor shall carry out initiatives befitting the Company to the 
greatest extent possible to address important societal issues 
(materiality issues). 
Remuneration System 
Remuneration for directors at Yamaha Motor is composed of base 
compensation (fixed monthly remuneration), performance-linked 
bonuses, and performance-linked share compensation. In fiscal 2025, the 
proportion of performance-linked compensation was raised. For the 
president and representative director, reference values for remuneration 
are generally set at 33.3% base compensation, 33.3% performance-linked 
bonuses, and 33.3% performance-linked share compensation, with 
remuneration for other officers determined in accordance with this structure. 
 Outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members receive only 
fixed compensation, reflecting their role in supervising and auditing 
management from an independent, objective perspective.  
Base Compensation 
Annual base compensation is set for each executive position, and is paid 
in cash on a monthly basis in twelve equal installments. 
Performance-Linked Bonuses 
The representative director shall only be paid a Companywide 
performance-linked bonus. Performance-linked bonuses for other 
directors and executive officers shall comprise a Companywide 
performance-linked bonus and an individual performance-linked bonus. 
Performance-Linked Share Compensation 
We have established a restricted stock compensation system under which 
the number of shares granted is determined in accordance with 
evaluations of the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) relative to 
the growth rate of the TOPIX Total Return Index as a benchmark, with the 
aim of promoting value sharing between directors and shareholders and 
achieving sustainable enhancement of corporate value. 
Breakdown of Performance-Linked Bonuses 
Companywide Performance-Linked Bonus
Pool of funds 
Profit attributable to owners of parent 
  × Fixed percentage of 0.115% (0.071% 
for executive officers who do not serve 
concurrently as directors) 
  × Variable evaluation coefficient based on 
ROA (range of 0–2x; including adjustments 
based on other business performance 
metrics) 
Individual Performance-Linked Bonus 
0–2x of base amount relative to achievement of and progress toward predetermined indicators 
Financial Evaluation 
Takes into account year-on-year comparisons and 
degree of target achievement for revenue, operating 
profit, and ROA in the division for which the person is 
responsible 
Non-Financial Evaluation 
Takes into account degree of progress on initiatives 
in the Medium-Term Management Plan, the 
development of future executive officers and 
candidates for senior management positions, and 
contributions to corporate value and brand value 
Ratio of Financial and Non-Financial Evaluation Directors: 1 to 1 (Executive officers: 1 to 1) 
Ratio of Companywide Performance-Linked Bonus to Individual Performance-Linked Bonus 
Representative director: 1 to 0 Directors: 2 to 1 (Senior Executive Officers: 2 to 1 and Executive Officers: 1 to 2) 
Breakdown of President and Representative Director Remuneration (Base Amounts) 
Base compensation (33.3%) Performance-linked bonus (33.3%) Performance-linked share compensation (33.3%) 
Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration 
The Nomination Committee deliberates on, decides, and 
makes recommendations on proposals to the Board of 
Directors regarding the appointment and dismissal of the 
CEO, directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and 
on process checks for the appointment and dismissal of 
executive officers and fellows, all while confirming future 
management strategies and personnel requirements for 
their implementation, among other tasks.
 As a Kando Creating Company that operates globally, 
Yamaha Motor strives to make the most of its diverse human 
resources by implementing various initiatives such as 
building, evaluating, and developing candidate pools for each 
management strata in accordance with clearly defined internal 
rules. In doing so, we also ensure the transparency and 
appropriateness of the process by involving outside directors 
and utilizing knowledge from external organizations. We have 
established the following CEO succession plan, based on the 
recognition that it is an important management issue for the 
sustainable and stable increase of our corporate value. 
CEO Requirements and Evaluation Criteria 
The Nomination Committee discusses and further refines the points deemed 
important for CEO requirements based on the opinions of the incumbent CEO 
and outside officers. 
CEO Selection Process 
(1) Draw up a list of CEO candidates 
•  The incumbent CEO recommends candidates based on major 
achievements and experience, as well as assessment results from external 
organizations
•  A list of CEO candidates is decided after deliberation by the Nomination 
Committee 
(2) Develop and narrow down CEO candidates 
•  The Nomination Committee deliberates and decides on the development 
plan for each CEO candidate 
•  The incumbent CEO provides each candidate with advice necessary for growth 
and opportunities for development in line with their development plans 
•  The Nomination Committee regularly confirms the development status of 
each candidate 
(3) Board of Directors resolution 
•  Based on the development status and leadership evaluation of the CEO 
candidates, the Nomination Committee proposes one final candidate to 
the Board of Directors 
CEO Resignation or Removal Process 
Roles of the Board of Directors and the Nomination Committee 
•  The Board of Directors supervises the execution of duties by directors and, as 
part of efforts to strengthen governance, determines the appointment and 
dismissal of the CEO based on reviews and evaluations of the CEO’s performance. 
•  If the CEO expresses an intention to resign, or if the CEO is deemed to have 
violated laws/regulations or the Articles of Incorporation in the execution of 
duties, to have become physically or mentally incapable of performing duties, 
or to be significantly unfit for the position, the CEO shall be dismissed and a 
new CEO shall be promptly selected. 
•  In the event of the above situation, the Nomination Committee will request 
the CEO to attend a hearing before the committee and report the results to 
the Board of Directors. 
CEO Succession Plan 
Corporate Governance 

[Page 62]
2022 2023 2024 2025
15,955 15,010 18,284
46,271
34,029 34,529
62,226
49,039 52,813
5.9
4.1 4.3
14,390
26,284
40,674
3.4
(FY) 
■ Strategic investment ( ¥ million)    
■ Other ( ¥ million)    
       Ratio against consolidated net assets (%) 
0
1.0
2.0
2.5 6.5 12 ROA(%)
61
Indicators Related to the ROA Evaluation Coefficient 
The Company sets the ROA evaluation coefficient based on 
the three-year average ROA based in accordance with the 
values indicated in the graph below. 
 The ROA-based evaluation coefficients are adjusted, 
following deliberation by the Compensation Committee, in 
light of the status of sustainability management (including 
the results of initiatives related to environmental management, 
progress in fostering a corporate culture to accelerate 
human capital management, and the overall progress and 
outcomes of risk and compliance management), as well as 
the degree of impact on corporate value derived from 
initiatives to enhance brand value.
In fiscal 2025, the Company’s three-year ROA average was 7.4%. However, long-term loans urgently raised to address the 
impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic have been excluded from this calculation. In accordance with the officer remuneration rules, 
the ROA evaluation coefficient was set at 0.8 following a comprehensive assessment of business performance. 
 The pool of funds for Companywide performance-linked bonuses for directors totaled ¥13 million (profit attributable to owners 
of parent of ¥16.1 billion × 0.105% × ROA evaluation coefficient of 0.8), which has been distributed among directors.
 Individual performance-linked bonuses comprise a financial evaluation-linked component and non-financial evaluation-linked 
component, each of which was determined based on a comprehensive evaluation of each director that took pre-determined 
evaluation indicators into account. 
Companywide Performance-Linked Bonus 
Yamaha Motor intends to hold shares as cross-shareholdings 
when it is deemed necessary and appropriate in order to 
enhance corporate value and achieve medium- to long-term 
growth. The Board of Directors annually examines each cross-
shareholding to determine whether the significance of 
holding the shares is appropriate, and appropriately discloses 
a summary of the results. In addition, Yamaha Motor upholds 
a policy of reducing cross-shareholdings in cases where the 
rationale for holding such shares cannot be justified. 
Cross-Shareholdings Cross-Shareholdings 
Executive Compensation in Fiscal 2025 
Notes:  1. The amount of base compensation mentioned above is the total compensation, etc., paid (monetary compensation) in fiscal 2025. 
 2.  The amount of base compensation and number of eligible officers mentioned above include one outside director and one outside Audit & Supervisory Board member who retired during the  
fiscal year. 
 3.  The amounts of Companywide performance-linked bonuses and individual performance-linked bonuses mentioned above are the amounts paid (monetary compensation) in April 2026 based on 
performance, etc., in fiscal 2025. 
 4.  With respect to share compensation, Yamaha Motor previously issued shares of the Company’s common stock (restricted stock) as share compensation to directors (except outside directors) 
and executive officers (excluding non-Japanese executive officers), based on the restricted stock compensation system with no performance conditions (hereinafter referred to as the “former 
system”) and subject to the condition that such shares are non-transferrable for as long as the individual remains an officer of the Company. However, per the resolution of the 87th Ordinary 
General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 23, 2022, the Company introduced a performance-linked share compensation plan that determines the number of restricted shares to be awarded 
based on evaluation of the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR), replacing the former system. In addition, the amount of performance-linked share compensation stated above is the amount 
granted in or after April 2026 (the full amount corresponds to monetary compensation claims held by recipients, which will be contributed as payment in kind for newly issued shares or treasury 
shares of the Company’s common stock) in accordance with the Company’s calculation method based on the results of the TSR evaluation, etc., for fiscal 2025. Note that while the amount 
expected to be paid on or after April 2025 disclosed in the business report for fiscal 2024 was ¥126 million, the actual amount paid in April 2025 was ¥120 million. 
Officer Classification 
Number of Eligible 
Officers 
(Persons)
Base Compensation 
Performance-Linked Bonuses 
Performance-Linked 
Share Compensation Total Companywide 
Performance-Linked 
Bonus 
Individual 
Performance-Linked 
Bonus 
Directors (excluding outside 
directors) 4 284 13 20 119 438
Outside directors 6 110 — — — 110
Audit & Supervisory Board 
members (excluding outside 
Audit & Supervisory Board 
members) 
3 86 — — — 86
Outside Audit & Supervisory 
Board members 3 66 — — — 66
Total 16 547 13 20 119 701
Performance-Linked Share Compensation 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Evaluation Coefficient 
Company TSR ÷ Growth rate of TOPIX Total Return Index 
Company TSR = 
Average closing share price in the 
final month of the final year of the 
TSR evaluation period (December) 
Total dividends 
during the TSR 
evaluation period 
Average closing share price in the month prior to the start of the 
TSR evaluation period (December) 
Growth rate of TOPIX Total Return Index = 
Average TOPIX Total Return Index closing price in the final month 
of the final year of the TSR evaluation period (December) 
Average TOPIX Total Return Index closing price in the month prior 
to the start of the TSR evaluation period (December) 
 (¥ million) 
Corporate Governance 

[Page 63]
Strengthen Risk and Compliance Management Centered on CRCO
Advancing the Yamaha Motor Group’ s Management to Globalize Responsibility
 and Authority for Swiftly Adapting to Business Environment Changes 
Accountability
CRCO structure
Deepen management 
deliberations 
Global Risk & Compliance 
Management Committee 
(economic security, 
U.S. tariffs, M&As) 
Ensure effectiveness
12-region RCO structure 
(cross-regional governance) 
Accelerate agility
CRCO and RCO 
reporting lines 
Increased 
market volatility 
Acceleration of 
digital initiatives 
Climate 
change 
Diversification 
of values 
Greater 
polarization 
Global
GLOBAL risk and 
compliance framework 
Agile
AGILE control of risks 
arising from changes 
Integrated
Risk and compliance management 
INTEGRATED into management 
plans and business strategies 
62
to the GRC Management Committee, as well as risk and compliance measures and crisis cases 
handled in each region and business. Having the CRCO oversee part of the target-setting and 
personnel evaluation process for RCOs strengthens reporting lines, thereby ensuring the global 
effectiveness of risk countermeasures and compliance initiatives, as well as agile responses 
based on local conditions. 
 Furthermore, at headquarters, the Company has established a Risk and Compliance 
Promotion Meeting composed of the heads of divisions responsible for risk. The meeting 
deliberates on policies, plans, monitoring, and countermeasures related to risk management 
and compliance from specialized perspectives. It also shares matters discussed by the GRC 
Management Committee and the GRC Steering Committee in order to advance countermeasure 
activities with both a management-level risk perspective and an understanding of conditions 
on the ground globally. The results of these deliberations and monitoring activities are reported 
by the CRCO to the Board of Directors as appropriate. Yamaha Motor is strengthening its 
framework to ensure the effectiveness of risk and compliance management adapted to the 
expanding scope of the Group’s business environment. 
Risk and Compliance Management 
Based on a risk and compliance management policy supported by a commitment to being 
Global, Integrated and Agile, Yamaha Motor is promoting a risk and compliance system that 
advances Group management with the aim of instilling responsibility and authority at a global 
level for swiftly adapting to changes in the business environment. Specifically, we conduct each 
of our activities with the aim of implementing risk and compliance management that is better 
integrated into management plans and business strategies globally. This enables us to adapt to 
our expanding business environment and to contribute to the Company’s value creation through 
agile identification and control of risks arising from changes in each region’s regulations and 
environmental factors. 
For risk and compliance management, Yamaha Motor has appointed a Chief Risk Compliance 
Officer (CRCO) and established the Global Risk & Compliance Management Committee (GRC 
Management Committee). The committee, chaired by the CRCO and composed of executive 
officers appointed by the CRCO, deliberates on Groupwide plans for risk countermeasures and 
compliance, and monitors their implementation, in accordance with the Rules of Risk Management 
and Compliance Management Rules. Committee members are appointed from among members 
of the Management Committee involved in management decision-making. In 2025, its deliberations 
covered strategic risks including countermeasures for significant risks at the Group level and 
global compliance activities, as well as rare earth measures, U.S. tariffs, defense-related 
transactions, governance for M&As and post-merger integration (PMI) activities, and subsidiary 
reorganizations. 
 Risk Compliance Officers (RCOs) designated by the CRCO have also been appointed for key 
business regions—North America, South America, Europe, Oceania, Indonesia, India, Thailand, 
Vietnam, the Philippines, China, Taiwan—as well as for the Financial Services business, thereby 
establishing a risk and compliance execution framework that operates across regions and 
businesses. In addition, we have established the Global Risk & Compliance Steering Committee 
(GRC Steering Committee), which is composed of the RCOs, to deliberate on matters for referral 
Basic Approach: Global, Integrated and Agile 
The Yamaha Motor Group has prepared a risk management ledger that identifies risks related 
to its management and business, and has deployed it globally throughout the Group. We 
control risks organizationally by conducting activities including risk assessment, risk selection, 
risk countermeasures, and monitoring based on the risk management ledger. 
 From fiscal 2026, these activities are to be centrally managed through a cloud-based 
system. In collaboration with RCOs in each region, we are also advancing the global utilization 
of data for risk management. 
Risk Management Activities 
Based on risk assessments and discussions with the GRC Management Committee and RCOs, we 
identify both significant risks at the Group level to be addressed on a priority basis across the 
Group and common risks managed through the risk ledger. We then plan countermeasure activities 
and monitor their implementation in order to systematically reduce risk across the Group. 
 In fiscal 2026, as global management issues, we newly identified the ethical, legal, and 
social risks associated with the use of AI technologies in business activities, as well as security 
risks specific to AI utilization. We are advancing countermeasures by adding “AI governance” as 
a significant risk at the Group level. In addition, geopolitical risks have become increasingly 
apparent in the procurement environment in recent years, leading to growing risks of supply 
chain disruption related to rare earths and other materials. To strengthen resilience against 
geopolitical risks, we have updated countermeasures for supply chain disruption and continue 
to treat it as a significant risk at the Group level. 
 Moreover, we are promoting Groupwide efforts to address significant risks at the Group level. 
These include implementing cybersecurity measures such as BCP initiatives and incident 
response systems; preventing compliance violations related to product quality, including the 
recurrence of inappropriate handling of applications for model designations; and minimizing or 
eliminating risks relating to fatal or serious occupational injuries involving equipment and 
machinery, human rights violations, and leakage of confidential information. We have newly 
designated governance for acquired subsidiaries, including corporate acquisitions and subsequent 
PMI activities, as a common risk and are strengthening related management efforts. 
Countermeasures for Significant Risks at the Group Level 
Risk and Compliance Management Structure 

[Page 64]
63
Risk and Compliance Management 
“Compliance Comes First—Doing the right thing, the right 
way” is the key message from the highest level of management 
to the entire Yamaha Motor Group. We promote compliance 
globally as the foundation of our value creation as a Kando 
Creating Company. 
We formulate an annual plan for compliance activities and 
systematically promote each activity based on that plan. 
1. Risk Assessment and Countermeasures 
We conduct business worldwide, and there are numerous 
laws and regulations that must be complied with in those 
business activities. A Groupwide risk assessment is carried 
out each year to identify the common compliance risks that 
need to be addressed, including those relating to bribery and 
corruption, cartels, security-related export controls, the 
protection of personal information and the protection of 
human rights. These risks are then assessed at individual 
operating divisions and Group companies, and countermeasures 
are implemented and monitored. For major compliance risks, 
we have established individual policies such as the anti-
bribery policy, competition law compliance policy, basic tax 
policy, and personal information protection policy in order to 
promote a Companywide compliance framework. 
2. Global Educational Activities 
We provide wide-ranging education, from training specifically 
for new recruits and employees taking on new positions to 
compliance training for all employees. Our distinctive 
educational measures that support global management 
include case studies from our own business. These case 
studies are used at meetings of the Global Executive 
Committee (GEC), which is composed of leaders from core 
Group bases, and the Global Compliance Meeting (GCM), which 
is held annually for management from each Group company. 
 We also promote “Compliance Comes First” Companywide 
through compliance messages from the President and Chief 
Executive Officer, e-learning and video training, which we 
stream globally. 
3. A Culture of Compliance 
As one way of measuring the culture of compliance, we 
conduct annual Groupwide compliance awareness surveys to 
confirm the effectiveness of compliance measures, including 
the degree of understanding and implementation of the 
Code of Ethics, hotline usage, and the effectiveness of 
training programs. The results are reported by the CRCO to 
the Board of Directors, Executive Officers Board, and other 
Yamaha Motor has introduced a Companywide whistle-blowing 
system. In 2025, we received 264 reports through the 
hotline directly managed by headquarters (approximately 
1.3 reports per 100 employees), while Group companies 
received an additional 389 reports. In terms of reporting 
systems directly managed by headquarters, in addition to 
the compliance hotline for all Group companies in Japan, we 
operate a global compliance hotline that accepts reports in 
10 languages from across the Group worldwide on specified 
matters such as executive misconduct, bribery, accounting 
fraud, and quality falsification; a fair business hotline that 
accepts reports from business partners; and a human rights 
reporting hotline aimed at corrective action and remedy in 
the area of human rights. 
 To ensure anonymity, the compliance hotline, global 
compliance hotline, and fair business hotline each use 
external reporting channels. Internal regulations also specify 
responsible personnel for handling reports, as well as ensure 
confidentiality and prohibition of disadvantageous treatment 
for reporting parties. In addition, posters featuring messages 
from the President are displayed Companywide to raise 
awareness of how to contact the hotlines. In addition, the 
status of reports and corrective measures is regularly 
reported by the CRCO to the Board of Directors, Executive 
Officers Board, and other relevant bodies. 
Basic Approach to Compliance 
Compliance Management Themes 
Addressed in Fiscal 2025 
Compliance Risk Assessment,  
Countermeasures, and Educational Activities 
Global Hotline Framework 
Code of Ethics 
Yamaha Motor has formulated and disseminated throughout the Group 
its Code of Ethics, which stipulates standards of behavior to be 
observed based on the Company Pledge, passed down since the 
Company’s foundation, and the Management Principles. Following the 
establishment of our Sustainability Basic Policy, we revised the Code of 
Ethics in 2024 to include new provisions on human rights, diversity, and 
social responsibility. At subsidiaries outside Japan, the Code of Ethics 
has been translated into the local languages of the areas in which we 
operate and distributed, and we are also working to raise awareness 
using an educational video that is available in 11 languages. 
relevant bodies, and are also used in activities to improve the 
culture of compliance. 
At the GEC, case studies and discussions based on Company 
incidents such as certification misconduct and data leaks 
were conducted. At the GCM, topics such as cybersecurity, 
for which we are accelerating global countermeasures, were 
addressed through dialogue video sessions between the 
heads of responsible divisions and the CRCO. In addition, 
executive officer training included discussions on quality 
misconduct and corporate culture using certification 
misconduct at an overseas subsidiary as a case study. 
Throughout these activities, compliance-related topics were 
addressed as important management themes, thereby 
promoting leadership 
from top management 
where “Compliance 
Comes First.” 
 Whistle-Blowing Systems (Compliance Hotlines) on our website 

[Page 65]
Fact Data
2021 20232022 2024 2025
2,534.2
2,378.9
5.0
155.3
1,000
500
0
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3.0
0
6.0
9.0
12.0
(¥ billion) (%)
(FY) 
■ Japan  ■ Overseas
ɹ Operating profit margin
2021 20232022 2024 2025
272.8
16.6
0
50
100
150
200
40
80
0
120
160
200
280
240
■ EPS 　　 Total payout ratio(¥) (%)
(FY) 
2021 20232022 2024 2025
2,902.6
1,000
500
0
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
(¥ billion) 
(FY) 
2021 20232022 2024 2025
159.1
6.3
40
20
0
60
80
120
140
100
160
2.0
0
4.0
6.0
8.0
■ R&D expenses 
　 R&D expenses to revenue ratio 
(¥ billion) (%)
(FY) 
2021 20232022 2024 2025
0.6
16.1
0
50
100
150
200
3.0
0
6.0
12.0
9.0
■ Profit attributable to owners of parent 
　 Profit ratio 
(¥ billion) (%)
(FY) 
2021 20232022 2024 2025
128.0
88.8
60
40
20
0
80
100
120
140
■ Capital expenditure
■ Depreciation and amortization 
(¥ billion) 
(FY) 
2021 20232022 2024 2025
0.8
1.4
4.4
5
0
10
15
20
25
(%) ROE 　 　ROIC 　　  ROA
(FY) 
-86.1
-30.4
■ Net cash provided by operating activities 
■ Net cash used in investing activities 
■ Net cash provided by (used in) 
      financing activities 
Free cash flow
(¥ billion) 
(FY) 2021 20232022 2024 2025
138.6
52.5
0
-50
-100
-150
50
100
200
150
64
Financial Highlights 
Revenue declined 1.6% year on year, as sales 
revenue in the core Motorcycles business 
remained at the same level as the previous 
fiscal year, while unit sales declined in other 
businesses. 
EPS declined from the previous fiscal year 
mainly due to a significant drop in profit 
attributable to owners of the parent as a 
result of the reversal of deferred tax assets.
Declines in profitability and asset efficiency 
resulted in ROE of 1.4%, ROIC of 0.8%, and 
ROA of 4.4%. 
Free cash flow for 2025 was an inflow of 
¥52.5 billion, and cash and cash equivalents 
were ¥398.9 billion at the end of the year. 
Interest-bearing liabilities (excluding lease 
liabilities) as of December 31, 2025 totaled 
¥1,044.3 billion. 
Revenue / Operating Profit Margin 
EPS / Total Payout Ratio 
Profit for the year declined 85.1% year on 
year due to a decrease in operating profit and 
the reversal of deferred tax assets. 
Capital expenditure was ¥73.7 billion in the 
Land Mobility business, ¥40.1 billion in the 
Marine Products business, ¥2.5 billion in the 
OLV business, ¥7.7 billion in the Robotics 
business, ¥1.2 billion in the Financial Services 
business, and ¥2.8 billion in Others. 
Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 
(Profit) / Profit Ratio 
Capital Expenditure / Depreciation and 
Amortization 
Total assets increased by ¥119.1 billion from 
the end of the previous fiscal year, primarily 
due to an increase in sales finance receivables.
The Company conducted R&D in new and 
growth businesses to raise the earning power 
of core businesses and contribute to a 
sustainable society, with R&D expenses 
totaling ¥159.1 billion in 2025. 
Total Assets 
R&D Expenses / R&D Expenses to 
Revenue Ratio 
ROE / ROIC / ROA 
Consolidated Cash Flow 
Note: Calculations are based on Japanese generally accepted accounting principles (J-GAAP) for years up to 2022 and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for 2023 and thereafter. 
 Please refer to our website for sustainability-related data (including the ISO 26000 content index and metrics published under SASB requirements).

[Page 66]
65
Eleven-Year Summary 
J-GAAP IFRS 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2025 / 2024
For the year: Millions of yen % change 
Revenue [Net sales] ¥1,631,158 ¥1,502,834 ¥1,670,090 ¥1,673,137 ¥1,664,764 ¥1,471,298 ¥1,812,496 ¥2,248,456 ¥2,414,759 ¥2,576,179 ¥2,534,203 (1.6)
Gross profit 436,525 402,660 458,629 455,173 442,331 371,812 506,840 633,745 812,244 821,964 784,544 (4.6)
Operating profit [Operating income] 130,329 108,594 149,782 140,787 115,364 81,672 182,342 224,864 243,920 181,515 126,373 (30.4)
Profit before tax [Income before income taxes] 122,599 99,730 152,313 136,883 120,626 84,990 199,704 245,798 236,073 183,175 133,196 (27.3)
Profit attributable to owners of parent 
[Net income attributable to owners of parent] 60,023 63,153 101,603 93,366 75,736 53,072 155,578 174,439 158,421 108,069 16,109 (85.1)
Net cash provided by operating activities 28,475 143,163 126,342 58,858 99,127 110,487 141,336 70,921 86,031 176,847 138,605 －
Net cash used in investing activities (68,475) (46,541) (53,194) (48,274) (79,662) (43,950) (51,026) (74,160) (116,126) (128,748) (86,124) －
Free cash flow (40,000) 96,621 73,147 10,584 19,465 66,537 90,309 (3,238) (30,094) 48,099 52,480 －
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 6,845 (67,627) (52,830) (26,423) (36,760) 83,668 (93,488) 23,103 88,532 (46,426) (30,428) －
Capital expenditure 64,064 61,330 56,532 48,342 58,053 53,756 66,963 88,206 109,991 126,584 128,026 1.1
Depreciation and amortization 44,324 42,434 45,457 46,405 49,689 48,241 51,129 59,824 71,041 83,067 88,766 6.9
At year-end: 
Total assets ¥1,305,236 ¥1,318,776 ¥1,415,845 ¥1,420,854 ¥1,532,810 ¥1,640,913 ¥1,832,917 ¥2,183,291 ¥2,563,561 ¥2,783,501 ¥2,902,584 4.3
Total equity [Net assets] 531,700 575,404 665,232 695,743 751,828 749,158 900,670 1,054,298 1,134,359 1,226,586 1,198,329 (2.3)
Interest-bearing liabilities [Interest-bearing debt] 
(Excluding lease liabilities/debt) 410,147 364,381 353,490 356,688 364,951 466,935 458,514 602,689 843,808 951,974 1,044,324 9.7
Ratios: 
Operating profit margin [Operating income margin] (%) 8.0 7.2 9.0 8.4 6.9 5.6 10.1 10.0 10.1 7.0 5.0
Return on equity 
[Return on shareholders’ equity] (ROE) (%) 12.6 12.3 17.6 14.6 11.1 7.5 19.8 18.7 15.5 9.7 1.4
Ratio of equity attributable to owners of parent to total 
assets [Equity ratio] (%) 37.6 40.5 44.0 46.3 46.0 43.6 46.9 45.9 42.0 41.7 39.0
Price/earnings ratio (times) 16.0 14.2 12.7 8.1 10.2 13.9 6.2 5.9 8.0 12.8 69.9
Debt/equity ratio (times) 0.84 0.68 0.57 0.54 0.52 0.65 0.53 0.60 0.78 0.82 0.92
Yen
Per share amounts: 
Basic earnings per share [Net income per share—basic] ¥57.30 ¥60.28 ¥96.98 ¥89.12 ¥72.28 ¥50.63 ¥148.56 ¥170.49 ¥157.89 ¥110.12 ¥16.59 (84.9)
Equity attributable to owners of parent per share  
[Net assets per share] 468.45 509.84 594.45 627.55 672.95 681.72 828.10 988.60 1,084.96 1,188.23 1,166.80 (1.8)
Cash dividends 44.00 60.00 88.00 90.00 90.00 60.00 115.00 125.00 145.00 50.00 35.00 (30.0)
Millions of yen, except price per share
Share performance (at year-end): 
Price per share (yen) ¥915 ¥858 ¥1,232 ¥720 ¥734 ¥701 ¥920 ¥1,003 ¥1,260 ¥1,405 ¥1,160 (17.4)
Market capitalization 958,264 898,931 1,290,413 753,989 769,567 735,207 954,229 1,018,027 1,268,663 1,372,988 1,125,153 (18.1)
Other data (at year-end): 
Number of shareholders 34,214 42,031 34,566 51,113 67,741 82,730 79,112 94,547 136,752 265,935 503,109 89.2
Number of employees 53,306 53,150 53,579 53,977 55,255 52,437 51,243 52,554 53,701 54,206 55,176 1.8
Notes 1. The fiscal year for each business is the 12-month period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31. References to years other than fiscal years refer to calendar years. 
 2. With regard to amounts stated in million yen units, amounts less than ¥1 million are truncated. For amounts stated in 0.1 billion or billion yen units, amounts less than ¥0.1 billion or ¥1 billion, respectively, are rounded off. 
 3.  From the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, the presentation of sales finance-related income and expenses has changed from recording under “Selling, general and administrative expenses,” “Non-operating income,” and “Non-operating expenses” to recording under “Net sales,” “Cost of sales,” and 
“Selling, general and administrative expenses.” To reflect this change in the presentation method, the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 have been restated. 
 4. The Company conducted a 3-for-1 stock split of common stock on January 1, 2024. The “Per share amounts” and “Price per share” for prior fiscal years are listed while considering this stock split. The “Cash dividends” shows the actual dividend amount before the stock split. 
 5. The Yamaha Motor Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Consolidated financial figures for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 are also presented in accordance with IFRS. 

[Page 67]
Japanese individuals
and others* 
29.0 %
Shareholder
Composition 
Japanese financial
institutions 
31.4 %
Other Japanese
corporations 
8.9 %
Foreign investors 
27.6 %
Securities companies 
3.1 %
66
Corporate Information / Stock Information (As of December 31, 2025)
Company name Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. 
Headquarters 2500 Shingai, Iwata,  
Shizuoka 438-8501, Japan
TEL: 0538-32-1115 FAX: 0538-37-4250 
Date of establishment July 1, 1955 
Capital ¥86,100 million 
Number of employees Consolidated: 55,176 
Non-consolidated: 12,082
Stock listing Tokyo Stock Exchange
Stock code 7272
Administrator of 
shareholder registry 
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited 
3-15-33 Sakae, Naka-ku, Nagoya-shi,  
Aichi Prefecture 460-8685 
Auditor Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC 
Inclusion in major 
indices 
Nikkei 225, JPX-Nikkei 400,  
JPX Prime 150 Index
Major consolidated subsidiaries 
Yamaha Motorcycle Sales Japan Co., Ltd. 
Yamaha Kumamoto Products Co., Ltd.* 
Yamaha Motor Corporation, U.S.A. 
Yamaha Motor Manufacturing Corporation of America 
Yamaha Motor Finance Corporation 
Yamaha Motor Europe N.V. 
PT. Yamaha Indonesia Motor Manufacturing 
Yamaha Motor India Pvt. Ltd. 
Yamaha Motor Philippines, Inc. 
Thai Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. 
Yamaha Motor Vietnam Co., Ltd. 
Yamaha Motor da Amazonia Ltda. 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
The statements in this report, except for historical facts, are 
forward-looking statements about the future performance of 
the Company and its Group companies. These statements are 
based on management’s assumptions and beliefs in light of 
information at the time this report was prepared and involve 
risks and uncertainties. Please be advised that actual results 
may differ significantly from those discussed in the forward-
looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, 
but are not limited to, general economic conditions in Yamaha 
Motor’s major markets, changing consumer preferences, and 
currency exchange rate fluctuations.
* “Japanese individuals and others” includes 47,635,354 shares (4.7%) of treasury stock. 
* Company name changed to Yamaha Marine Co., Ltd. effective January 1, 2026. 
Capital Stock Principal Shareholders 
Authorized 2,700,000,000 shares  
(common stock) 
Issued 
1,018,125,101 shares  
(includes 47,635,354 shares of 
treasury stock) 
Number of 
shareholders 503,109
Shareholder Ownership 
(%) 
The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd.  
(trust account) 17.83
Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 5.06
NORTHERN TRUST CO. (AVFC)  
RE SILCHESTER INTERNATIONAL INVESTORS 
INTERNATIONAL VALUE EQUITY TRUST
3.99
Yamaha Corporation 2.98
NORTHERN TRUST CO. (AVFC)  
RE U.S. TAX EXEMPTED PENSION FUNDS 2.31
Toyota Motor Corporation 1.93
The Shizuoka Bank, Ltd. 1.74
NORTHERN TRUST CO. (AVFC)  
RE NON TREATY CLIENTS ACCOUNT 1.67
The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd.  
(trust account) 1.58
JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385781 1.38
Shareholder Notes 
Fiscal year January 1 to December 31 
Reference date for 
allocation of surplus 
for dividends 
Year-end dividends: December 31 
Interim dividends: June 30
General Meeting of 
Shareholders March 
Share unit number 100 shares
Method of public 
notice 
Public notices are provided by 
electronic notice. In unforeseen 
circumstances where electronic 
notices are impossible, public notice is 
made in the Nihon Keizai Shimbun. 
Note: Percentage of ownership is calculated excluding treasury shares. 

[Page 68]
YAMAHA MOTOR CO., LTD.
2500 SHINGAI, IWATA, SHIZUOKA, JAPAN
https://global.yamaha-motor.com/