Share with your team
Guests can view 10 articles for free
EDITOR’S NOTE: This is Part 2 of an ongoing series on Georgia’s economic outlook and the impact looming international tariffs could have on agriculture, vehicle and weapons manufacturing, aerospace enterprises and other industries. Read Part 1.
ATLANTA — It’s been a cycle of ups and downs for Stephanie Stuckey.
She spearheaded a dramatic expansion of her family brand of pecan candies that her grandfather started as a roadside stand in 1937, expanding Stuckey’s products from a few hundred stores to thousands across the United States since she purchased the company in 2019.
She’s seen tough times, too. Hurricane Helene devastated local farms in September, many of which Stuckey depends on to fuel her Wrens manufacturing plant with a steady supply of pecans.
Now, business leaders like Stuckey are bracing for impact amid the recent rollout of steep tariffs on key international trading partners, spurring fresh worries — but also hope.
“The tariffs are a constantly changing landscape, but we’re just trying to run our business,” Stuckey, a former Georgia state representative, told State Affairs. “What I anticipate is we’re going to ride out the tariffs just like we ride out everything else.”
Tariffs in flux
In 2024, the Peach State ranked seventh nationwide in net exports, shipping around $53.1 billion in locally made products overseas while importing about $145.6 billion, according to the Georgia Chamber of Commerce.
President Donald Trump’s newly unveiled tariffs have sent shockwaves through the manufacturing, technology and agricultural sectors across the country — particularly in Georgia.
The White House initially established 10% tariffs on imports from all countries, along with higher “reciprocal” tariffs targeting nations such as China, Vietnam and members of the European Union that levy tariffs on U.S. goods. Mexico and Canada — Georgia’s top export destinations — were spared from the new tariffs.
Chinese tariffs could especially affect local businesses, the Georgia chamber noted. China was the third largest buyer of local goods last year at $3 billion, behind Canada and Mexico, and the second highest importer to Georgia at $17.2 billion.
On April 3, the chamber published a report outlining the impacts local industries may experience from the tariffs, including higher prices for car parts and steel, a squeeze on crop imports and possible slowdowns at the state’s bustling ports.
“The Georgia Chamber recommends our members take a proactive stance in the face of these changes,” the report said. “This includes reviewing contracts for price adjustment clauses, exploring alternative sourcing or markets and staying engaged with policymakers.”
While some business leaders breathed a sigh of relief when the Trump administration announced plans last week to delay enforcing the reciprocal tariffs for 90 days, the chamber urged farmers and manufacturers to remain nimble.
“President Trump’s announcement of a 90-day pause on most reciprocal tariffs is good news for the Georgia companies that rely on some of our most critical global trading partners,” the chamber said in a statement. “While this is a welcome development, being patient and continuing to plan ahead remains the best tactic for Georgia companies in a rapidly evolving global business landscape.”
Remaining in effect, thus far, are a 25% tariff on imported cars and car parts and a 125% tariff on all Chinese goods — both of which, observers say, could deal an immediate blow to Georgia industries.
Car parts chaos
Not all industries are feeling as optimistic as the chamber about the sudden tariff change.
The 25% auto tariff could pose a major threat to automobile titans like Hyundai and Kia that have production plants in the state, said Jennifer Safavian, president and CEO of the trade group Autos Drive America.
Safavian said her group recently conducted a study that indicates a 25% tariff on top of the 10% global levy would prompt a “sharp decline” in U.S. auto production and an average $4,000 increase in the price of new vehicles.
“I don’t think there’s any question that these tariffs are going to impact Georgia,” Safavian told State Affairs. “There’s not a single vehicle sold in the U.S. market that is made from 100% domestic parts.”
Representatives from Hyundai, which recently opened a $7.6 billion electric vehicle factory outside Savannah and has pledged $21 billion in local investment, declined to comment about their forecasts for the tariffs — other than to say that prices for Hyundai cars will not change before June 2.
“Hyundai Motor Group remains committed to the long-term growth of the U.S. automotive industry through localized production and innovation,” Bianca Johnson, a Hyundai spokesperson, wrote in an email to State Affairs. “With nearly four decades of investment in America, including a new $21 billion commitment, Hyundai Motor Group is expanding U.S. production to 1.2 million vehicles across Alabama, Georgia and our new Metaplant in Savannah, making the majority of our U.S. sales locally built.”
‘I’ve just got to hope’
Like Hyundai, other big manufacturers are taking a wait-and-see approach.
Tariffs on steel and aluminum from China could hike costs for large aerospace companies like Lockheed Martin Corp., which contributes to the local manufacturing of aircraft parts that topped Georgia’s exports at $12.6 billion last year.
Lockheed declined to comment on how much tariffs may affect the company’s bottom line.
“We are carefully evaluating all tariff announcements from the U.S. government and will work with our employees, customers and suppliers to address any potential impacts, within the U.S. and for our global partners,” Cailin Schmeer, a Lockheed spokesperson, told State Affairs in an email.
Amid tariff anxiety, some business owners are looking for a silver lining.
Chicken farmers and processing plants have been weathering a drop in exports to China for more than a year since an avian flu outbreak in November 2023. Mike Giles, president of the Georgia Poultry Federation, said farmers and processors hope the tariffs will spur demand for domestically produced chicken instead of imports from China and the European Union.
“Georgia poultry can compete in any market in the world when the terms of trading are fair,” Giles told State Affairs. “While we are monitoring these negotiations closely for impacts to our members, we support the [Trump] administration’s goal of bringing balance and fairness to the international trading landscape.”
Drew Echols, a fifth-generation peach farmer and state senator from Gainesville, said he feels optimistic about the prospect of tariffs creating headwinds for local crops and incentivizing more manufacturers to set up shop in Georgia after relocating their operations overseas.
“It’ll hurt in the short term — there’s no question,” Echols told State Affairs. “I’ve just got to hope that most of those companies come back.”
Correction: This story was updated to note the correct location of Wrens, Georgia, for the Stuckey's candy plant.