[Page 1]
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 1 of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
Standard Terms and Conditions of Purchase for the Auto-
motive Technology of 
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Divi-
sion of Textron Inc.), Kautex Corporation and Kautex Tex-
tron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
1. Applicability and Scope   
1.1 These Standard Terms and Conditions of Purchase  (these “Terms”) are the main 
terms which govern the purchase of products, parts,  components, systems and 
other product materials (“Goods”) and services (“Se rvices”) by Kautex Inc., 
Kautex of Georgia Inc., Kautex Corporation and Kaut ex Textron, S. de R.L. de 
C.V. (“Kautex”) from supplier (“Supplier”) (“Kautex ” and “Supplier” together re- 
ferred to herein as the “Parties”) named on a Kaute x Purchase Order, as defined 
below, and the related performance by Supplier. The se Terms, a Master Sourcing 
Agreement (“MSA”) in case of serial delivery of Goo ds (see also Section 2.7(i) be- 
low), the GSM (as defined below), and the Purchase Order (collectively, the “De- 
livery Contract”) comprise the entire agreement bet ween the parties, and super- 
sede all prior or contemporaneous understandings, a greements, negotiations, 
representations and warranties, and communications, both written and oral.  
1.2 Any terms and conditions of Supplier, including  Supplier’s General Terms and 
Conditions of Sale and Delivery, or other deviating  terms of Supplier (“Deviating 
Terms”), shall not be applicable unless they have b een explicitly accepted by 
Kautex in writing. These Terms shall also apply in all cases in which Kautex ac- 
cepts deliveries by Supplier, whereby any Deviating Terms shall be considered re- 
jected and disregarded (regardless of whether Kautex is aware of them or not). All 
references or notices by Supplier concerning the ap plication of Deviating Terms 
are hereby expressly rejected. These Terms shall al so apply to all future transac- 
tions with Supplier. 
1.3 In addition to these Terms, and unless otherwis e agreed to by Kautex and Suppli- 
er in writing, the Kautex Global Supplier Manual (“GSM”), including its an- 
nexes and related documents in the most recent vers ion, in place on the date of 

[Page 2]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 2 of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
issuance of the relevant Purchase Order by Kautex; the GSM is available at 
www.kautex.com , shall also apply.  
2. Orders 
2.1 Inquiries by Kautex to Supplier concerning Good s and Services, the terms of their 
delivery or requests by Kautex for quotations are i n no manner binding on 
Kautex. 
2.2 Supplier shall be legally bound to supply Goods  or to provide Services based on 
any of the following (each a “Purchase Order”): 
(i)  For the serial delivery of Goods, through a Sc hedule to the MSA (“S2MSA”), 
in accordance with and under the relevant “MSA”, du ly executed by Kautex 
and Supplier (as possibly specified further by a Blanket Order and/or Blanket 
Order Releases as defined and provided below at 2.3); and 
(ii) For all other Goods, including tools and proto types, and for the provision of 
Services through Single Purchase Orders by Kautex w hereby Kautex is ac- 
cepting the Supplier’s previous offer to sell Goods  or to provide Services, as 
further defined below at 2.4. 
2.3 If the S2MSA, or any specific order issued in a ccordance thereof , does not specify 
the quantities of Goods, or specifies the quantitie s as “blanket order”, “as re- 
leased”, “as scheduled”, “as directed”, “subject to Kautex’s production releases” or 
in another similar fashion (a “Blanket Order”), then, in consideration for ten U.S. 
dollars (U.S.$10.00), the payment of which shall be  made by Kautex upon the 
termination of this Delivery Contract, Supplier gra nts to Kautex an irrevocable 
option for as long as the Blanket Order is in place  to  purchase the Goods in such 
quantities and on such delivery dates and times as indicated in automatically 
generated delivery or shipping releases, authorizat ions, manifests, broadcasts or 
similar written instructions issued or transmitted by Kautex to Supplier from 
time to time in reference to such Blanket Order (ea ch a “Blanket Order Release”), 
and Supplier shall deliver such quantities on such dates and times, at the price 
and on the other terms specified in the Blanket Ord er Release in connection with 
the underlying Blanket Order; provided that Kautex shall purchase no less than 

[Page 3]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 3 of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
one piece or unit of each of the Goods or the Servi ces and no more than one hun- 
dred percent (100%) of Kautex’s requirements for th e Goods or the Services, as 
applicable. All references to the “Purchase Order” shall include any Blanket Order 
and Blanket Order Release. 
2.4 Each Purchase Order issued by Kautex for Goods to be supplied other than by 
way of serial supply (“Single Purchase Order”) cons titutes Kautex‘ acceptance of 
Supplier’s previous offer for the sale of Goods and /or Services, and includes and 
is governed by the terms of the Delivery Contract.  
2.5 Purchase Orders are only binding if they are in  writing. No signature on a Blanket 
Order or a Purchase Order by Kautex is required. A Purchase Order shall be 
deemed to be in writing if transmission of such Pur chase Order is by fax or E-
mail. If Supplier objects, Supplier’s objections ar e deemed waived if Supplier 
subsequently commences work on the Goods, or upon s hipment of the Goods or 
performance of the Services without an express writ ten modification made by 
Kautex. Any Purchase Order is limited to and condit ional upon Supplier’s 
acceptance of the Terms and the Delivery Contract. 
2.6 Oral or telephone orders (including instant mes saging or SMS) are not binding 
and do not create a contractual relationship under any circumstances. Oral 
agreements between the parties hereto must be confi rmed by Kautex in writing 
for these to be enforceable. Similarly, any changes  to the Delivery Contract (sub- 
ject to the provisions in Section 8) and side agreements shall require written form 
to become effective.  
2.7 In the event of a conflict between the S2MSA (i ncluding any Blanket Order) or a 
Single Purchase Order and the MSA (if applicable), these Terms, and the GSM, 
the terms of these documents shall apply in the following order: 
(i) For each Delivery Contract entered into pursuan t to Clause 2.2(i) for the de- 
livery of serial Goods  
- S2MSA (including Blanket Order) and/or possible Updates of an S2MSA 
- MSA 

[Page 4]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 4 of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
- The Terms, and 
- GSM 
(ii)  For each Delivery Contract entered into pursuant t o Clause 2.2(ii) for the de- 
livery of other deliverables 
- Single Purchase Order 
- The Terms, and 
- GSM 
3. Production and Material Releases and Forecasts 
3.1 Supplier shall manufacture and deliver (and Kau tex is obliged to accept) those 
Goods stated in the column “Production Release” in any Blanket Order Release. 
However, Kautex is under no circumstances obliged t o accept delivery of Goods 
that are not listed in the relevant Production Rele ase column of each applicable 
Blanket Order Release. 
3.2 Supplier may buy raw materials and/or work in p rogress pursuant to the relevant 
information in the column “Material Release” in any  Blanket Order Release. 
Where no information on the Material Release is to be found in a Blanket Order 
Release, the following shall apply: for eight (8) w eeks in the event of negotiated 
sea shipment and otherwise for four (4) weeks, in e ach case as of the date of the 
Blanket Order Release.  
If Kautex does not issue Blanket Order Releases wit h enough Goods in the Pro- 
duction Release column to cover the materials in th e Material Release column, 
Kautex shall reimburse Supplier for the proven costs of purchasing the raw mate- 
rials and/or semi-finished products requested in th e Material Release column of 
the applicable Blanket Order Release, provided it i s proven that they cannot be 
used otherwise by Supplier within a reasonable peri od. Kautex is also entitled to 
demand the delivery of these raw materials and/or s emi-finished products, in 
Kautex’s discretion. 

[Page 5]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 5 of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
3.3 Kautex shall send a non-binding forecast of the  anticipated Material Releases and 
Production Releases (“Forecast”) for the following months in each Blanket Order 
Release. Supplier is obliged to keep sufficient pro duction and delivery capacities 
on hand to satisfy these Forecasts; Supplier must a ccept and be able to satisfy all 
of the received Blanket Order Releases on the basis of these Forecasts, including a 
possible additional weekly delivery volume of +15% in each case. 
3.4 Should Supplier establish upon receiving and du ly reviewing a Blanket Order Re- 
lease that it is unable to meet the stated amounts in the Production Release col- 
umn, Material Release column and/or Forecast (inclu ding a possible additional 
weekly delivery volume of +15%) of the anticipated future Blanket Order Releas- 
es, it shall notify Kautex without undue delay in w riting (but by no later than 
within one business day after its receipt). If Supp lier does not notify Kautex ac- 
cordingly, the amounts in the Production Release co lumn, the Material Release 
column and the Forecasts in a Blanket Order Release  shall be considered a war- 
ranty that Supplier can manufacture or produce or p rovide the stated quantity of 
the Goods or the Services without the imposition of  overtime charges or other 
surcharges. 
3.5  A forecast submitted in accordance with clause 3.3 shall continue to be in effect 
until Kautex submits a revised forecast. 
4. Prices and Terms of Payment, Reservation of Title  
4.1 The binding prices and payment terms are set ou t in the S2MSA/Blanket Orders 
or in Single Purchase Orders. The prices are fixed prices and constitute the total 
price for manufacturing and delivering Goods and pe rforming Services. VAT (or 
other similar tax, including but not limited to Goo ds and Services Tax levied un- 
der the Excise Tax Act  (Canada) which shall be deemed for purposes hereof  to be 
VAT) in the statutory amount is not included in the  price and shall be charged 
separately, if applicable. 
4.2 In particular, the price includes delivery to t he Delivery Address, as defined be- 
low, as well as packaging, freight, insurance, duti es, fees and applicable taxes 

[Page 6]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 6 of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
(other than VAT) and other costs of this nature, unless otherwise specifically pro- 
vided in the S2MSA/Blanket Order or in the Single Purchase Order. 
4.3 The invoiced amount may be paid, at Kautex's so le discretion, within 14 days with 
a discount of 2 %, or within 90 days net, provided no other payment term is nego- 
tiated between the Parties in writing. These paymen t periods shall commence on 
the date of the receipt of  a valid invoice, but no t before the completed delivery of 
the Goods to Kautex. If the payment date falls on a  weekend or holiday, payment 
shall be made on the next business day. The fees in curred for international pay- 
ment transactions shall be borne by Supplier. 
4.4 Kautex shall render payment through bank transf er. Any evaluated receipt set- 
tlement process to balance accounts payable (debiting/crediting method) must be 
agreed to separately between the Parties in writing in order to apply. 
4.5 If no evaluated receipt settlement process has been agreed with Supplier, invoices 
must include the Purchase Order number and product code. Supplier shall be 
solely responsible for all of the consequences resulting from the failure to comply 
with this obligation, provided it is at fault.  
4.6 Invoices for tools that remain at Supplier (and  which are not already owned by 
Kautex) must additionally indicate the location of the tools on the invoice. Invoic- 
es for the delivery of tools will not be recognized  and will be rejected by Kautex if 
the stated VAT deviates from the actual statutory V AT or the stated amount of 
VAT was not provided in the local currency  
Supplier must immediately correct and reissue the i nvoices that do not meet the 
requirements set out above. The last sentence in clause 4.5 shall apply according- 
ly.  
4.7 Supplier is not entitled to assign its rights t o be paid any amount by Kautex or 
have such amounts collected by third parties withou t the prior written consent of 
Kautex. Supplier does not have the right to adjust prices or charge additional 
costs of any kind without the prior express written  consent of Kautex. A late de- 
livery of Goods, late invoicing and the delivery of  defective Goods shall entitle 
Kautex to withhold payment accordingly.  

[Page 7]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 7 of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
4.8 Upon the full payment of the purchase price, ti tle to the Goods shall pass to 
Kautex.  
4.9 In addition to any right of set-off or recoupme nt provided by law, all amounts due 
to Supplier and its subsidiaries and affiliates sha ll be considered net of indebted- 
ness or obligations of Supplier and its subsidiarie s and affiliates to Kautex, and 
Kautex may set-off against or recoup from any amoun ts due or to become due 
from Supplier and its subsidiaries and affiliates t o Kautex however and whenever 
arising. Kautex may do so without notice to Supplie r or its subsidiaries or affili- 
ates. The set-off of Supplier's claims against Kaut ex is only permitted in the case 
of uncontested or finally adjudicated claims. If an y obligations of Supplier or its 
subsidiaries or affiliates to Kautex are disputed, contingent or unliquidated, in- 
cluding warranty claims made before final determina tion of cause, Kautex may 
defer payment of amounts due until such obligations are resolved. 
 Supplier may only avail itself of its right of ret ention in relation to Kautex if Sup- 
plier's counterclaim on which it bases its right of  retention is based on the same 
contract and is uncontested or has been finally adjudicated. 
4.10 Kautex shall inform Supplier if Kautex should be presented with the more favor- 
able offer by a third party during the term of an S2MSA or a Blanket Order for the 
delivery of Goods that are the subject matter of su ch S2MSA or Blanket Order or 
of similar parts in comparable volumes, particularl y with respect to price, re- 
bates, technology, quality, payment terms, delivery  period or other terms. The 
Parties shall then use their best efforts to reesta blish Supplier's competitiveness. 
Should Supplier be unable to offer Kautex the same terms despite such efforts or 
should the Parties be unable to come to an agreemen t on an adjustment of Sup- 
plier's prices within a reasonable period, Kautex shall be entitled to terminate the 
relevant S2MSA or Blanket Order without complying with a notice period.  
4.11 In the event of a payment or invoice dispute, Supplier shall continue performing 
its obligations under this Delivery Contract notwithstanding any such dispute. 
5. Delivery and Transfer of Risk 

[Page 8]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 8 of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
5.1 Supplier shall deliver all Goods to the address  specified in the S2MSA/Blanket 
Order or in the Single Purchase Order (the “Deliver y Address”) during Kautex's 
normal business hours or as otherwise instructed by  Kautex. Delivery (including 
the transfer of risk) shall be made DAP (Incoterms 2010) to the stated Delivery 
Address.  
5.2 All Goods must be properly packed, labeled and shipped in compliance with all 
applicable laws, industry standards and the care cu stomary to the industry. Sup- 
plier shall pack all goods for shipment according t o Kautex's instructions or, if 
there are no instructions, in a manner sufficient t o ensure that the Goods are de- 
livered in undamaged condition. Supplier must provi de Kautex prior written no- 
tice if it requires Kautex to return any packaging material. Any return of such 
packaging material shall be made at Supplier's risk of loss and expense. 
5.3 Supplier is obliged to enclose the relevant con signment notices in the deliveries. 
The consignment notices must contain the Kautex ord er number, part number 
and the supplier number, as well as the information  required in the GSM. In ad- 
dition, any requested certificates ( e.g., quality certificates) must be enclosed. If 
these requirements are not met, Supplier must bear the expense of any delays. 
Should Supplier deliver Goods with missing or the w rong consignment notices, 
labels, or Advance Shipping Notes (ASN) or are delivered with the wrong or dam- 
aged packaging on grounds for which Supplier is res ponsible, Supplier shall pay 
Kautex an amount equal to USD $250.00 (the “Section  5.3 Liquidated Damag- 
es”). The parties intend that the Section 5.3 Liqui dated Damages constitute com- 
pensation, and not a penalty. The parties acknowled ge and agree that Kautex's 
harm caused by Supplier for a breach of this Sectio n 5.3 would be impossible or 
very difficult to accurately estimate at the time o f contract, and that the Section 
5.3 Liquidated Damages are a genuine and reasonable  pre-estimate of the antici- 
pated or actual harm that might arise from Supplier’s breach of this Section 5.3.  
5.4 Supplier must label the Goods, prototypes, tool s, packing materials and packag- 
ing in accordance with Kautex's instructions and ot herwise in accordance with 
the applicable laws and the standards of the automo tive industry. Provided noth- 

[Page 9]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 9 of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
ing to the contrary has been negotiated, labels must be in the form of barcodes or 
in another form determined by Kautex or required by law. 
5.5 Supplier must duly provide Kautex with all of the d ocuments (particularly cus- 
toms certificates, certificates of origin and custo ms reimbursement documents) 
required under the applicable customs regulations without undue delay and in full. 
To the extent additional official documents for the  export or import of the Goods 
are required to use the Goods in accordance with th eir specifications, Supplier 
agrees to provide these documents to Kautex or to p rocure them without undue 
delay. Without limitation it is Supplier’s responsi bility to provide correct tariff 
classification of Goods. If Kautex incurs any cost or loss as a result of inaccurate 
tariff classification, such costs or losses shall be paid by Supplier to Kautex. 
6. Delivery Dates and Delays in Delivery 
6.1 Supplier acknowledges that time is of the essen ce with respect to Supplier's obli- 
gations hereunder and the timely delivery of the Go ods and Services. Supplier 
shall deliver the Goods in the quantities and on th e date(s) specified in the 
S2MSA/Blanket Order or Blanket Order Release, in th e Single Purchase Order or 
as otherwise agreed to between the Parties in writing (“Delivery Date”). 
6.2 In the event that Supplier fails to deliver the  Goods in full on the Delivery Date, 
Kautex is entitled to terminate the S2MSA or any Pu rchase Order immediately 
upon written notice to Supplier and Supplier shall indemnify Kautex against any 
losses, claims, damages, and reasonable costs and e xpenses directly attributable 
to Supplier's failure to deliver the Goods on the Delivery Date.  
6.3 Kautex is not obliged to accept deliveries at a ny date prior to the Delivery Date, 
deliveries of Goods in excess of the quantity of Go ods ordered, or deliveries of 
less than the quantity of Goods ordered, in accordance with the relevant Purchase 
Order. Supplier shall bear the risk of the perishin g of the Goods that have been 
delivered prior to the Delivery Date. Kautex is ent itled to return excess Goods at 
Supplier's expense; Supplier must bear all packagin g, processing, sorting and 

[Page 10]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 10  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
transport costs. Kautex is entitled to store all of  the Goods delivered prior to the 
applicable Delivery Dates or excess Goods at the risk and cost of Supplier. 
If Kautex accepts deliveries at any date prior to t he Delivery Date or deliveries of 
Goods in excess of the quantity of Goods ordered, K autex is nevertheless not 
obliged to make payment (in accordance with clause 4.3) at an earlier date than it 
would have been if the deliveries had been made on the scheduled Delivery Date. 
6.4 Should Supplier anticipate that it will be unab le to meet the Delivery Date, re-
gardless of the reason, it must so inform Kautex in  writing without undue delay, 
stating the reason and suspected duration. Furtherm ore, Supplier must present 
to Kautex without undue delay an action plan for re establishing its full ability to 
make delivery. 
6.5 In the event of late deliverieson grounds for w hich Supplier bears responsibility, 
and notwithstanding all other rights of Kautex, Sup plier shall pay Kautex an 
amount equal to USD $250.00 (the “Section 6.5 Liqui dated Damages”).The par- 
ties intend that the Section 6.5 Liquidated Damages  constitute compensation, 
and not a penalty. The parties acknowledge and agre e that Kautex's harm caused 
by Supplier for a breach of this Section 6.5 would be impossible or very difficult 
to accurately estimate at the time of contract, and  that the Section 6.5 Liquidated 
Damages are a genuine and reasonable pre-estimate o f the anticipated or actual 
harm that might arise from Supplier’s breach of this Section 6.5.  
7. Force Majeure, Emergency Strategy 
7.1 Disruptions in the delivery relationship due to  events that are unforeseeable and 
unavoidable and outside of the area of control of a  Party and for which the affect- 
ed Party bears no responsibility such as force maje ure, labor disputes (strike and 
lock-out), war, unrest, terrorist attacks or natura l disasters shall release the Par- 
ties from their performance duties for the duration  of the disruption and for a 
reasonable period thereafter, as well as for the scope of obligations undergone. 
7.2 The events listed in Section 7.1, the threatene d insolvency of Supplier's own sup- 
pliers and actual or threatened disruptions of the supply chain related to the pro- 
vision of Goods or Services must be reported by Sup plier telephone and email 

[Page 11]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 11  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
without undue delay (but no later than within ten ( 10) hours) following their oc- 
currence to Kautex's Purchasing and Logistics (and additionally in each case to 
the Email address emergencysupplier@kautex.textron. com) and the occurrence 
of each disruption must be proven upon Kautex's request.  Supplier must disclose 
how long the disruption is expected to last in its estimation. Kautex shall treat 
this information as confidential but is entitled to  disclose it to its own customers 
who could be affected by the disruption.   
7.3 If the end of such disruption is not foreseeabl e or if the disruption continues for 
more than two (2) consecutive months, each Party sh all have the right to rescind 
or terminate without notice the affected Delivery C ontract (or its as yet unper- 
formed parts). 
7.4 Taking into account the special requirements of  automotive manufacturers, it 
must be ensured that the supply of the Goods is mai ntained in the event of dis- 
ruptions in Supplier's sphere of influence. Supplier thus undertakes to implement 
an emergency strategy, provided this is appropriate  in light of foreseeable busi- 
ness disruptions, particularly in the areas of proc urement, manufacturing, pro- 
duction and/or transport resulting in a delivery re striction (concerning delivery 
periods and volumes) or, if no such emergency strat egy has been defined, to pro- 
vide for its fastest possible development and introduction so that impacts on sup- 
plies can be avoided or at least limited to the gre atest possible extent. Kautex 
must be allowed to inspect this emergency strategy at all times upon demand. 
Supplier must inform Kautex without undue delay of disruptions or other events 
which could cause a limitation of the deliveries. 
8. Change Management  
8.1 Changes in Supplier's delivery obligation, incl uding changes in volume, the type 
of shipment, packaging, delivery time or Delivery Address or changes in drawings 
or specifications, must be jointly agreed to by the Parties and set down in writing, 
whereby all of the resulting changes in costs or th e amount of time which may be 
required to fulfill the contract, must be taken into account and included. 

[Page 12]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 12  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
For technical changes, including, but not limited t o, changes in the Kautex draw- 
ings or specifications, the following provisions of  this Section 8 shall apply in ad- 
dition. 
8.2 Kautex may at any time - even during serial pro duction - demand technical 
changes to the Goods, and Supplier agrees to implem ent such changes within the 
scope of what can be reasonably expected of it and in accordance with the follow- 
ing provisions. Supplier shall submit an offer for the resulting costs (both possi- 
ble increases and possible decreases) as well as in formation on deadline shifts 
and consequences, effects of the changes on weight,  function and quality without 
undue delay upon the receipt of the change request by Kautex. Supplier is obliged 
to keep the costs caused by the changes requested by Kautex as low as possible. 
8.3 Supplier shall execute the requested changes as  soon as the parties have reached 
an agreement on all of the costs increases or decre ases, postponements and ef- 
fects of the changes on weight, function and qualit y, the S2MSA is supplemented 
or amended as required ( e.g.,  through an update of the S2MSA) and Supplier has 
received a new Blanket Order and new Blanket Order Releases, as applicable, on 
this basis and the revisions reflected there. 
8.4 If technical changes or deviations are reasonab le in the view of Supplier – e.g.,  
due to more efficient production methods or to improve and increase the safety of 
the Goods or to adapt to technical progress – Suppl ier shall propose them to 
Kautex; information on the effects on the price, De livery Dates, etc. must be pro- 
vided at the same time. Kautex shall review these c hange proposals without delay 
and shall not arbitrarily refuse their acceptance. 
8.5 Supplier shall not execute any technical change s until such time as it has received 
Kautex's written approval, the S2MSA has been suppl emented or amended ( e.g.,  
by an update of the S2MSA) and Supplier has receive d a new Blanket Order and 
new Blanket Order Releases, as applicable.  
8.6 Kautex's technical documents, drawings and plan s must be examined by Supplier 
with regard to their completeness and correctness p rior to the commencement of 
handling, processing or production. If, in the view  of Supplier, they are incom- 

[Page 13]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 13  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
plete or contain errors or defects, Supplier is obl iged to promptly (but in any 
event prior to the start of processing or productio n) inform Kautex thereof in 
writing; all missing technical documents, drawings or plans must be requested in 
writing without undue delay. Kautex's technical doc uments, drawings and plans 
may not be disclosed to third parties and must be returned to Kautex as soon as it 
requests them, but by no later than upon the completion of the order.  
9. Quality Management, Documentation 
9.1 Supplier must comply with the latest state of t he art and comply with all quality 
standards and legal requirements which are applicab le for the Goods. This also 
includes compliance with Kautex' Engineering Standa rds that apply for each 
product or product group. Supplier is particularly obliged to comply with the pro- 
visions in Parts D and F of the GSM.  
To the extent Supplier has received drawings, sampl es or other documents from 
Kautex in relation to any Goods, it shall ensure th at such Goods are produced in 
accordance with such drawings, samples or other doc uments. Changes to the 
Goods, an already released production process or it s relocation to another site 
shall require the prior written consent of Kautex. 
9.2 In particular, Supplier shall maintain a qualit y management system pursuant to 
IATF 16949:2016. Upon request of Supplier, an alter native quality management 
system equivalent to the standards in the automotiv e industry according to VDA 
6.1 or ISO 9001:2008 may be agreed to between the Parties.  
If Supplier does not meet quality levels demanded b y such a quality management 
system and does not correct such deficiencies withi n three months after notifica- 
tion of such defects by Kautex, Kautex shall be ent itled to terminate the Delivery 
Contract forthwith without any further obligations in relation to Supplier and 
without prejudice to all other rights. 
9.3 Supplier must be familiar with and comply with the governing statutory provi- 
sions of the following countries: the EU (at the ti me of entering into the Delivery 
Contract), the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United 

[Page 14]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 14  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
States of America, Canada, Mexico, Japan, China, South Korea, Thailand, Moroc- 
co, Brazil and India.  
9.4 The equivalent provisions of the VDA Terms or I ATF 16949:2016 and ISO 
9001:2008 in the versions applicable during the ter m of the Delivery Contract 
shall apply. In all other respects, the provisions of Part F of the GSM and the rele- 
vant Purchase Order shall apply. 
9.5 Supplier agrees to analyze and review the speci fications and drawings of the 
Goods prior to the conclusion of the S2MSA or the d elivery of a binding offer for 
Goods and to advise Kautex without undue delay of p ossible errors, inconsisten- 
cies, etc.  Upon request, Supplier shall participat e in all quality and development 
programs by Kautex or the customers of Kautex.  
9.6 Kautex may, upon reasonable advance notice, dur ing normal business hours, 
make reasonable inspections at such intervals as Ka utex deems necessary, of the 
facilities where Supplier produces or assembles the  Goods. Supplier shall ensure 
that the same right of inspection is also provided to Kautex with Supplier’s sup- 
pliers.  
9.7 An inspection or audit under clause 9.6 shall n ot constitute acceptance of the 
Goods or a part of the Goods nor shall it release S upplier from the fulfillment of 
any express or implicit terms hereunder or under an y applicable Purchase Order 
or Blanket Order Release.  
In the event of development work or the start of se ries production, the release by 
Kautex shall not discharge Supplier from its product responsibility.  
9.8 If Supplier intends to relocate its production facilities or its plant site, it must give 
Kautex reasonable advance written notice thereof; in so doing, it must deliver no- 
tification in writing to Kautex at least six (6) mo nths prior to the start of the dis- 
mantling or relocation of production machinery and must pre-manufacture 
Goods in the necessary volume to allow Supplier to fulfill any outstanding supply 
obligations to Kautex. The plan for relocation must  be delivered to Kautex by 
Supplier on the date of the relocation notification by way of a time schedule. Sup- 
plier must continually consult with Kautex on all o f the effects on the production 

[Page 15]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 15  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
and delivery of the Goods and particularly organize  a new initial sample of the 
Goods following the completion of such relocation. 
9.9 All documents relevant to quality, including, b ut not limited to, release declara- 
tions, must be kept for a period of at least 15 yea rs after the end of serial produc- 
tion for the relevant series (“EOP”) and delivered to Kautex upon demand. Sup- 
plier shall ensure that its sub-suppliers have equivalent duties. 
 In addition, Supplier must document the following in separate records with re- 
gard to the Goods that are specially labeled in the  technical documents: (i) the 
dates, (ii) the nature of the audits and (iii) the names of the individuals who have 
conducted the audits for the purpose of confirming compliance with the require- 
ments contained in the documentation and (iv) the r esults of the required quality 
audits. The corresponding audit documents must be k ept 15 years after the EOP 
and delivered to Kautex upon demand. Supplier shall  ensure that its suppliers 
have equivalent duties. 
10. Incoming Goods Inspection 
Kautex shall only inspect the Goods delivered by Su pplier upon receipt for any 
discrepancies in identity, quality or otherwise, an d for visually discernible dam- 
age if and as soon as this is appropriate in accord ance with proper business prac- 
tice. Kautex may reject all or any portion of the G oods if it determines the Goods 
are nonconforming or defective. Kautex shall report  any defects established dur- 
ing this inspection to Supplier without undue delay . In all other respects, Suppli- 
er shall waive a further incoming goods inspection at Kautex. 
Any inspection or other action by Kautex under this Section 10 shall not reduce or 
otherwise affect Supplier's obligations under the D elivery Contract, and Kautex 
shall have the right to conduct further inspections  after Supplier has carried out 
its remedial actions. 
Kautex shall report other defects which are not dis covered by Kautex until pro- 
cessing or use of the delivered Goods in accordance  with the terms hereof or any 
applicable Blanket Order or Blanket Order Release o r of any Single Purchase Or- 

[Page 16]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 16  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
der to Supplier without undue delay upon the discov ery of the defects. To such 
extent, Supplier shall waive the defense of the late notice of defect.  
11. Defect Liability 
11.1 Supplier warrants that all of the Goods it del ivers: 
(i)  shall comply with the specifications, samples, draw ings and other Kautex 
requirements, 
(ii)  are free of defects (particularly in design, workma nship, production and 
material) even if the design has been approved by Kautex, 
(iii)  are fit, sufficient and suitable for the purposes f or which they were 
bought, provided Supplier is aware of such purposes, and  
(iv)   are free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests or other encum- 
brances, in particular, Supplier warrants that it i s transferring good title 
to Kautex. 
These warranties (“Supplier’s Warranties”) survive any delivery, inspection, ac- 
ceptance or payment of or for the Goods by Kautex and are cumulative and in ad- 
dition to any other warranty provided by law or equ ity. Supplier’s Warranties 
shall be in addition to all other warranties available under applicable law. 
11.2 Should Kautex discover Goods that do not compl y with the requirements under 
clause 11.1 prior to production (handling and proce ssing, installation or mount- 
ing) (“Defective Goods”), the following applies: 
At the election of Kautex, Supplier must promptly d eliver defect-free Goods (re- 
placement parts) or remedy /repair the defects of t he Defective Goods (together, 
“Subsequent Performance”). All sorting work or other remedial work that may be 
required shall be conducted by Supplier in coordina tion with Kautex on Kautex's 
premises. 
Supplier shall bear all of the costs and expenses i ncurred by itself or Kautex with 
respect to the delivery of Defective Goods [(including, but not limited to, the costs 

[Page 17]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 17  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
for sorting, transporting (including premium transp ortation costs), inspecting 
(including the expense of research and development)  the causes of the defects, 
etc.)] and Subsequent Performance. These costs also  include the costs of remov- 
ing the Defective Goods and installing the newly delivered, defect-free Goods. 
11.3 If a defect is discovered after the start of p roduction, the provisions in clause 11.2 
shall initially apply. In addition, the following applies: 
(i)  If a defect is discovered before the Product is del ivered by Kautex to its 
customer, Supplier shall additionally bear the cost s for all remedial work 
(labor costs, costs of materials, cost for additionally required tools). 
(ii)  If a defect is not discovered until after the Goods  have already been deliv- 
ered by Kautex to its customers or even to the latt er's end customer ( e.g.,  
the consumer), Supplier shall additionally bear the portion of the incurred 
costs for taking them back and/or for Actions (as d efined in clause 12 be- 
low) which correspond to Supplier's contributory ca use or contributory 
fault. Kautex shall inform Supplier as soon as such defects occur and shall 
inform it of the further action and the measures to be taken. 
11.4 If the Subsequent Performance fails or cannot be reasonably provided or if Sup- 
plier does not commence it without undue delay, Kautex may rescind the affected 
Purchase Order without notice and send the Goods ba ck to Supplier at Supplier’s 
risk and expense. Section 14.4 shall apply accordingly. 
In these and other urgent cases, particularly to av ert imminent danger or avoid 
greater damage, or when it is not possible for Kautex to inform Supplier of the de- 
fect and give it a short period to remedy the defect, Kautex may remedy the defect 
itself or have the defect remedied by a third party.  
11.5 In all other respects, the applicable law shal l apply in supplement, particularly 
with respect to the right of Kautex to a reduction, damage compensation (particu- 
larly for the dismantling and installation costs) and compensation for expenses. 
11.6 Supplier’s Warranties are available to, and fo r the benefit of, Kautex, its subsidi- 
aries and affiliates, their respective successors a nd assigns, Kautex’s customers 

[Page 18]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 18  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
and users of products containing the Goods or the Services. Supplier’s Warranties 
shall extend to future performance of the Goods. Th e warranty period for Goods, 
other than Tooling (as defined below), shall be fifty-four (54) months in each case 
as of the installation on the vehicle into which th e Part was installed, but a maxi- 
mum of sixty (60) months after the delivery to Kautex. 
The warranty period for Tooling shall be thirty-six  (36) months after delivery to 
Kautex.  
11.7 The warranty period for Services shall be the greater of (i) five (5) years or (ii) the 
applicable statutory limitation periods. For Servic es, the provisions in a joint de- 
velopment agreement between Kautex and Supplier shall apply.  
12. Recall and Field Campaigns 
To the extent a recall, an owner notification progr am, any field or service campaign or 
any other corrective action ("Action") in respect o f a Good or a product incorporating a 
Good: (i) is required in fulfillment of a law, regu lation, order or other governmental re- 
quirement or as a safety measure to avoid personal injury or death; or (ii)  is to take place 
due to a decision of Kautex or Kautex's customer, K autex shall where practicable and 
reasonable inform Supplier of the content and scope  of the Action to be conducted and 
shall give Supplier the opportunity to comment on t he proposed Action before that Ac- 
tion is implemented. All other contractual and/or s tatutory remedies and/or claims by 
Kautex against Supplier (particularly claims in rec ourse) shall remain unaffected by this 
Section 12. 
13. Liability, Product Liability  
13.1 Supplier shall defend, indemnify and hold harm less Kautex, its subsidiaries, affil- 
iates, successors or assigns and their respective d irectors, officers, shareholders 
and employees (collectively, “Indemnitees”) against  any and all loss, injury, 
death, damage, liability, claim, deficiency, action, judgment, interest, award, pen- 
alty, fine, cost or expense, including reasonable a ttorney and professional fees 
and costs, and the cost of enforcing any right to i ndemnification hereunder and 
the cost of pursuing any insurance providers (collectively, “Losses”) arising out of 
or occurring in connection with the Goods and Servi ces purchased from Supplier 

[Page 19]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 19  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
or Supplier's negligence, willful misconduct or bre ach of the Delivery Contract. 
Supplier shall not enter into any settlement withou t Kautex's prior written con- 
sent. Where there is contributory cause or contribu tory fault on the part of 
Kautex, Supplier may claim such contributory fault or contributory cause in rela- 
tion to Kautex. In the relation between Kautex and Supplier, their respective 
share in the damage compensation payments shall be governed by their share in 
the contributory fault. 
Supplier's obligations also include the costs incur red by Kautex for legal assis- 
tance or which are incurred in connection with the defense against product liabil- 
ity claims. Should Kautex be subject to special rul es governing the burden of 
proof in relation to the injured party, these rules on the burden of proof shall also 
apply in Kautex's relationship to Supplier, provide d the circumstances to be 
proven are not attributable to Kautex's area of responsibility. 
13.2 Should performance by Supplier or its subcontr actors also include work on the 
business site of Kautex or a Kautex customer, Supplier shall take all required pre- 
cautionary measures during the course of the work t o avoid personal injury and 
property damage. Supplier shall compensate and inde mnify Kautex and any In- 
demnitee for all damage caused by Supplier's work o n the business site, unless 
Supplier bears no fault. Supplier shall oblige its subcontractors accordingly.  
In addition, Supplier must comply with the house ru les established by Kautex 
(e.g.,  the Contractor Safety Global Policy, the Guideline  on Third-party Company 
Coordination or other, comparable documents) which will be provided to Suppli- 
er upon request.  
13.3 Supplier remains fully responsible for the act ions, inactions, and performance of 
all obligations performed by its subcontractors, representatives and sub-suppliers 
to the same extent as if such actions, inactions or  obligations were made or per- 
formed by Supplier. 
14. Tooling, Tools, Free Issue Materials 
14.1 All parts, raw materials, tools, compression r olls, equipment, jigs, fixtures, mate- 
rials (dies, templates, measuring instruments, form s) or other machines or items 

[Page 20]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 20  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
(including replacements, add-ons, accessories) (“Tooling”) provided by Kautex or 
purchased by Supplier at Kautex's expense (and whos e procurement costs are re- 
imbursed by Kautex or have been included in the pri ces to be paid for the Goods 
and have been fully paid) (“Kautex Tooling”), shall be the sole property of Kautex. 
All rights shall also remain with Kautex for all dr afts, samples, drawings, specifi- 
cations, templates, blueprints, stereotype plates, films, data, models or other in- 
formation and documents (“Documents”) whether prepa red by Supplier, Kautex 
or jointly. Supplier shall not use the Kautex Tooli ng and Documents for the pro- 
duction or design of parts for third customers with out the prior written consent 
of Kautex.  
14.2 Deadlines regarding Tooling, such as PPAP, SOP , etc., are binding. Supplier shall 
reimburse Kautex for all incurred damages caused by  Supplier’s failure to meet 
the agreed deadlines. 
14.3 Supplier shall have possession of the Kautex T ooling and the Documents as a 
bailee and shall keep them separate and segregated from any other property of 
other parties and shall clearly mark them as Kautex 's property. Supplier shall 
bear the risk for the Kautex Tooling and Documents for as long as they are locat- 
ed in the possession or control of Supplier. They s hall not be removed from Sup- 
plier's business premises without the written instr uctions of Kautex, save for the 
purpose of fulfilling the terms of contract. Suppli er shall also conduct the 
maintenance work that may be required in the normal  intervals at its own ex- 
pense until the expiration of the duty to replace p arts (15 years under EOP). Sup- 
plier must report damage or problems to Kautex without undue delay.  
14.4 Supplier grants Kautex an irrevocable option t o take possession of and title to the 
Tooling supplied by Supplier at its own expense (“S upplier Tooling”) that is spe- 
cial for the production of the Goods, upon payment of their present value less the 
amounts Kautex has already paid to Supplier or whic h are amortized through the 
Goods price; provided, however, that this option sh all not apply if Supplier Tool- 
ing is used to produce goods that are the standard stock of Supplier, if a substan- 
tial quantity of similar goods are being sold by Su pplier to others or if Supplier 
needs Supplier's Tooling to manufacture and deliver  the Goods under a valid 
(particularly if not terminated) contractual delive ry duty (or on the basis of an 

[Page 21]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 21  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
S2MSA or a Purchase Order) to Kautex. If Kautex exe rcises this right, Supplier 
shall provide Kautex with all of the technical info rmation and safety instructions 
for use which Kautex requires to install, assemble and otherwise use the Neces- 
sary Tools.  
14.5 Kautex shall retain title to Kautex Tooling. T he handling/processing, conversion 
or installation or the transformation of the Kautex Tooling by Supplier shall be on 
behalf of Kautex. If the Kautex Tooling is processe d with other items which are 
not the property of Kautex, Kautex shall acquire co-ownership in the new product 
in the ratio of the value of the Kautex Tooling (pu rchase price plus VAT) to the 
other processed items at the time of processing. 
14.6 If the Kautex Tooling provided by Kautex is in divisibly attached to or mixed with 
other items which are not the property of Kautex, K autex shall acquire co-
ownership in the new product in the ratio of the value of the Kautex Tooling (pur- 
chase price plus VAT) to the other attached or mixe d items at the time of attach- 
ment or mixing. If the attachment or mixing happens  in such manner that Sup- 
plier's items are deemed to be the main item, it is  agreed that the Supplier shall 
transfer proportionate co-ownership to Kautex; Supp lier shall store and keep the 
sole or co-owned property of Kautex on behalf of Kautex.  
14.7 A detailed description of the Tooling includin g identification number, location 
and picture shall be sent to Kautex as soon as  suc h information is available, e.g.,  
the purchase order for the Tooling is issued, the Tooling is completed or delivered 
to Supplier (if applicable).  
15. Provision of Spare Parts 
15.1 Supplier agrees to warrant the supply of spare  parts for the intended life of the 
products for which the Goods are to be used or in w hich the Goods are to be in- 
corporated into (“Product”). Supplier warrants the supply of such spare parts for 
15 years after the end of the supply of serial part s (EOP). Supplier shall thus also 
ensure the availability of the Tooling for such per iod (cf. clause 14.3). All warran- 
ties and rights extended to Kautex with respect to Goods shall apply to spare 
parts.  

[Page 22]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 22  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
15.2 During the supply of Goods under serial produc tion, the price for the spare parts 
shall be equivalent to the price set down in the cu rrent or last Purchase Order 
from time to time. As of the fourth (4 th ) year after EOP, each price shall be indi- 
vidually agreed between the Parties on the basis of  the prices applicable at EOP, 
taking into account any of Supplier's incurred addi tional costs for the manufac- 
ture of the spare parts.  
15.3 In good time prior to the expiration of the 15 -year minimum period for the provi- 
sion of spare parts, Supplier shall grant Kautex th e opportunity to submit a final 
order for its long-term requirements. 
15.4 For deliverables that are not included in a Pr oduct for a vehicle (particularly for 
Tooling), Supplier shall warrant the uninterrupted provision of spare parts at fair 
market prices for the duration of at least fifteen (15) years as of the date of deliv- 
ery. 
15.5 Tooling for Goods or for spare parts may not b e scrapped, sold or otherwise dis- 
posed of even after the expiration of the 15-year minimum period included in Sec- 
tion 15.1, unless Kautex has given its express writ ten consent (either in advance 
or after the fact). Supplier shall contact Kautex i n this regard at least 12 months 
prior to any such intended action. 
16. Intellectual Property Rights 
16.1 Supplier warrants that the Goods shall not inf ringe any trademark, company, 
name, patent, utility model, design model, trade dr ess or design rights or copy- 
rights of Kautex or any third parties (Kautex and s uch third parties deferred to 
herein as “Indemnitees” or an “Indemnitee”) (includ ing applications for such in- 
tellectual property proprietary rights) (“Intellectual Property Rights”) worldwide, 
including, but not limited to, in Supplier's countr y of origin and in the Federal 
Republic of Germany, the member states of the Europ ean Union (at the time of 
entering into the Delivery Contract), the United Ki ngdom, the United States of 
America, Canada, China, Japan, South Korea, Brazil,  Mexico, Thailand, Morocco 
and India. Supplier shall defend, indemnify, and ho ld harmless, any Indemnitee 
for any claims of third parties under such actual or alleged infringements of Intel- 

[Page 23]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 23  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
lectual Property Rights and bear any and all Losses , costs and expenses any In- 
demnitee may incur in this regard, including, but n ot limited to, the costs of the 
prosecution of and defense against rights on the on e hand and the costs resulting 
from compliance with a possible cease and desist ob ligation on the other, arising 
out of or in connection with any claim that Indemni tee's use or possession of the 
Goods or use of the Services infringes or misappropriates any Intellectual Proper- 
ty Rights. In no event shall Supplier enter into an y settlement without Kautex's 
prior written consent. 
16.2 The Parties are obliged to inform one another without undue delay of the risks of 
infringement and alleged cases of infringement of w hich they become aware and 
to mutually counteract the equivalent claims of inf ringement within the scope of 
what can be reasonably expected of them. 
16.3 The limitation period for claims under this Se ction 16 shall be three (3) years 
from the termination of expiration of this Delivery Contract.  
17. Commission Development 
To the extent Supplier provides Services to the dev elopment of Goods or Tooling 
(“Development Services”) to Kautex, whose costs are  either paid separately by 
Kautex and/or which are reimbursed through the pric es payable for the Goods, 
the following applies: 
17.1 Supplier represents and warrants that the Serv ices do not and shall not infringe 
or misappropriate any Intellectual Property Rights;  Section 16 shall apply to De- 
velopment Services. 
17.2 The ownership of rights to all of the products  resulting from the Development 
Services (including all inventions, know-how, test and development reports, sug- 
gestions, ideas, drafts, designs, proposals, sample s, models, etc.) achieved by 
Supplier under the scope of this  Delivery Contract (“Work Products”), shall inure 
to the benefit and title of  Kautex upon their crea tion. Work Products shall be 
considered “works made for hire”, and to the extent that such works do not quali- 
fy as “works made for hire”, Supplier hereby assign s to Kautex all right, title, and 
interest therein. 

[Page 24]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 24  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
17.3 To the extent the Work Products can be protect ed as intellectual property, Kautex 
is particularly entitled, at its own discretion, to  register, pursue, assign and dis- 
continue at any time Intellectual Property Rights in its own name. 
17.4 Supplier shall claim, without limitation, the inventions made by its employees 
and subcontractors when performing any Delivery Con tract that are capable of 
protection as intellectual property by notice to th e inventor; the right to the in- 
vention must be transferred to Kautex without undue delay. 
17.5 To the extent the Work Products are protected by Supplier’s copyrights, Supplier 
shall grant Kautex and the related companies of Kau tex the exclusive, gratuitous, 
irrevocable, non-transferrable, perpetual, territor ially and substantively unlim- 
ited right to freely use and exploit this Work Prod uct in any manner. To the ex- 
tent the Work Products are created in the form of s oftware, the rights of use and 
exploitation shall be limited to the object code. K autex may demand the delivery 
at any time, even during the execution of the development project. 
17.6 Supplier (and its related companies) is and re mains the owner of the inventions 
made prior to the commencement of the cooperation and of the intellectual prop- 
erty rights registered or granted to them, as well as of the copyrights, utility mod- 
els and know-how existing prior to the cooperation (“Existing Intellectual Proper- 
ty Rights”). 
17.7 To the extent Existing Intellectual Property R ights are required for the exploita- 
tion or further development of the Work Products, K autex shall receive a perpet- 
ual and territorially unlimited, royalty free, non- exclusive, sub-licensable and ir- 
revocable right of use with the right to issue sublicenses. 
17.8 To the extent Supplier involves its suppliers and subcontractors under the scope 
of its performance, it is obliged to ensure through  appropriate contractual ar- 
rangements that Kautex receives the ownership right s and rights of use in ac- 
cordance with the provisions of this Section 17. 
18. Electronic Communications, International Material D ata System 
(IMDS) 

[Page 25]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 25  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
18.1 Kautex establishes various Electronic Data Int erchange (“EDI”) requirements in 
order to manage its supply chains. Supplier accordi ngly has to implement these 
EDI requirements. The capability of exchanging stan dard messages via tradition- 
al EDI methods or web based EDI is essential for the exchange of Advanced Ship- 
ping Notes and Blanket Order Releases, invoices and consignment notices. Due to 
technology improvements and changes, these EDI requ irements will probably 
evolve and change over the time of the supply relat ionship. Supplier, therefore, is 
obliged to establish and constantly maintain an electronic communication system 
which will enable Supplier to participate to the ex tent required by Kautex in the 
relevant EDI  system. Supplier must be able at any time to handle the EDI formats 
employed in various regions such as VDA, EDIFACT  and ANSI.  
18.2 Supplier will provide to Kautex during the dev elopment phase, the material data 
stipulated in the International Material Data Syste m (“IMDS”) in electronic for- 
mat and/or obtain such material data – as the case may be – from its suppliers 
and enter such material data into the IMDS. In case  of any “build to print” ar- 
rangements (i.e. in cases in which Supplier is not required to undertake any 
product development) Supplier shall fulfill this re quirement immediately after 
the conclusion of the S2MSA. Supplier’s suppliers o f assembled components are 
also responsible for the prompt provision of all IM DS relevant material data for 
their products. Supplier acknowledges that: 
 (i) IMDS data is part of Kautex release procedure;  
(ii) Missing IMDS data will result in ISR /PPAP rej ection; 
(iii) Supplier shall inform Kautex about the IMDS-I dentification-No.  
(a) Kautex-Identification-No. and Customer No. must  be defined in 
Part No. 
(b) Part description must be identical to ISR/PPAP/ PSW  
18.3 If such material data are not provided and/or not entered into the IMDS by the 
Supplier on time as required pursuant Clause 18.2 K autex shall be entitled to 
terminate the relevant Purchase Order without any notice period.  
Details are provided for in the GSM, section.  

[Page 26]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 26  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
19. Compliance with the Laws, Safety Environmental Protection, Hazard-
ous Substances 
19.1 Supplier must comply with all applicable feder al, state, provincial or municipal 
laws, rules, provisions or orders and industry stan dards concerning the Goods 
and Services as well as during the performance of t his Delivery Contract. When 
performing its contractual duties it must particula rly comply with all statutory 
and governmental rules regarding environmental prot ection and product safety 
and employment provisions. In particular, it shall maintain an environmental 
management system according to ISO 14001:2015 (or s et up such system within 
six (6) months of the first Purchase Order). This s hall apply for all countries in 
which Supplier does business, as well as for the co untries to which the Goods are 
delivered (namely to the Kautex plants) and for the  countries to which the Prod- 
uct is delivered. 
19.2  For Goods and materials, as well as for procedures such as transport, testing, 
processing, distribution, packaging, labeling, stor age, treatment, manufacture 
and disposal that must comply with laws, rules, reg ulations, provisions or orders, 
requirements of regulatory authorities, codes of pr actice and industry standards 
("Laws") due to their composition and impact on the  environment, Supplier shall 
comply and ensure that all such Goods, materials an d procedures comply with 
the Laws of the countries in which Supplier does bu siness, as well as of the coun- 
tries where the Goods, materials and procedures are manufactured or carried out, 
imported, delivered, distributed or used (including  countries hosting Kautex 
plants and the countries to which the final product is delivered). 
19.3  Supplier shall in particular ensure that the Goods, materials and procedures (in 
19.2 above) comply, with the applicable Laws on haz ardous goods and substanc- 
es. In particular, Supplier shall ensure that only specially trained and where ap- 
propriate licensed or registered personnel with appropriate protective equipment 
handle, transport, distribute and in any way deal o r work with or use hazardous 
goods and substances and that only licensed devices , carriers, containers and fa- 
cilities are used to handle, transport, distribute and in any way deal or work with 
or use such hazardous goods and substances. Supplie r is obliged to provide 
Kautex and all others who handle, transport, distri bute or in any way deal or 

[Page 27]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 27  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
work with or use the Goods, materials and procedure s an overview and material 
safety data sheets of all hazardous goods and subst ances it used to perform the 
Delivery Contracts. 
19.4 Supplier shall ensure that the requirements of  the EU Chemicals Regulation 
REACH (Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006, OJ. EU of 18. 12.2006) and any im- 
plemeting legislation and codes of practice or regu latory guidance – hereinafter 
referred to as "REACH" are met, particularly the requirements of timely preregis- 
tration and registration. Kautex is in no way oblig ed to conduct or meet any such 
requirements (including the (pre-) registration). 
Supplier is aware that the Goods may not be used if  the REACH and other appli- 
cable Laws  are not fully and properly met. Details are provided in the GSM. 
19.5 Supplier is responsible for obtaining, and wil l obtain, all necessary consents, ap- 
provals, registrations, permissions, authorisations , licences or other regulatory 
requirements pursuant to all Laws relevant to the G oods, materials and proce- 
dures and will bear all costs and expenses associat ed with, and comply at all 
times with, those. 
19.6 If Supplier has entered into an arrangement wi th a third party regarding the 
Goods, Services or deliveries or if it has otherwis e engaged in conduct constitut- 
ing an unlawful restriction of competition within t he meaning of the applicable 
anti-trust provisions, Supplier must pay an amount equal to 8 % of the net billing 
amount of the scope of delivery affected by this an ti-trust violation (the “Section 
19.6 Liquidated Damages”) to Kautex. The parties intend that the Section 19.6 
Liquidated Damages constitute compensation, and not  a penalty. The parties 
acknowledge and agree that Kautex's harm caused by Supplier for a breach of this 
Section 19.6 would be impossible or very difficult to accurately estimate at the 
time of contract, and that the Section 19.6 Liquida ted Damages are a genuine and 
reasonable pre-estimate of the anticipated or actua l harm that might arise from 
Supplier’s breach of this Section 19.6. This obligation shall survive the termina- 
tion or fulfillment of this Delivery Contract. Othe r or additional contractual or 
statutory claims by Kautex with respect to a breach  of any applicable anti-trust 

[Page 28]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 28  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
statutory provision shall remain unaffected by this  Section 19.6; in particular, 
Kautex may claim greater damages upon no less than corresponding proof of 
damage in excess of the pre-estimate set out herein.  
19.7 Supplier will fully indemnify Kautex for all c onsequences, including, but not lim- 
ited to, Kautex's damage and the claims of third pa rties against Kautex resulting 
from Supplier's culpable failure to comply with or fulfill the foregoing provisions 
of this Section 19 or Part C of the GSM fully or on time. 
19.8 Supplier shall comply with all applicable laws , statutes, regulations, and codes 
relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, including but not limited to the For- 
eign  Corrupt Practices Act and the Corruption of Foreign Public Official Act  
(Canada), and shall promptly report to Kautex any r equest or demand for any 
undue financial or other advantage of any kind rece ived by Supplier in connec- 
tion with the performance of this Delivery Contract. 
19.9 Supplier shall obtain, and at all times during  the term of this Delivery Contract, 
maintain, all necessary licenses and consents appli cable to its obligations herein. 
Supplier shall ensure that all persons, whether emp loyees, agents, subcontrac- 
tors, or anyone acting for or on behalf of the Supplier, are properly licensed, certi- 
fied or accredited as required by applicable law an d are suitably skilled, experi- 
enced and qualified to perform. 
20. Suspension/Cancellation/Rescission of Orders/Contract 
Provided the Parties have entered into a Purchase Order, the following provisions 
shall apply concerning their term and termination: 
20.1 Unless otherwise provided in the Delivery Cont ract, the Delivery Contract is lim- 
ited to the length of the production life of the applicable original equipment man- 
ufacturer (“OEM”) vehicle program for which Kautex intends to incorporate the 
Goods or Services; provided, however, Supplier’s ob ligations with respect to 
spare parts in Section 15 above shall survive termi nation or expiration of this De- 
livery Contract. 

[Page 29]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 29  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
20.2 Each Party has the right to terminate the Deli very Contract without notice for 
cause. Cause shall include, but is not limited to, the following cases: 
(i) for Kautex in the event that a customer of Kaut ex terminates on any 
grounds whatsoever the contract for the delivery of the products for which 
Kautex needs Supplier's Goods; 
(ii) for Kautex in the event that Supplier stops pa yment or is repeatedly in de- 
fault of payment in relation to its own suppliers or employees;  
(iii) insolvency proceedings concerning the assets of a Party are initiated or re- 
jected due to the lack of assets or one of the Parties is liquidated;  
(iv) the occurrence of a significant deterioration of the asset situation of a Par- 
ty (which leads to a threat of the fulfillment of its obligations to the Party); 
(v) the breach of major contractual duties; in the event of a breach which can 
be remedied, however, not until after the Party not  at fault has demanded 
in writing that the other Party remedy the breach, warned it of the threat- 
ened termination for cause and given it a reasonabl e period of grace of at 
least four weeks which has expired to no effect; 
(vi) a Party comes under the control of a competito r of the other party due to a 
change in its owners or shareholders. 
20.3 In the event of a breach by Supplier against t he duties under Section 18 and 
against the duty not to commit or refrain from acti on which may result in crimi- 
nal liability for fraud or embezzlement, insolvency  crimes, competition crimes, 
the grant of undue advantages or corruption by the individual employed by Sup- 
plier or other third parties, Kautex shall be entit led to a right to suspend or ter- 
minate all existing legal transactions with Supplie r without notice and/or to 
break off all negotiations, without prejudice to the rights in Section 18. 
20.4 In the event of the cancellation or other term ination of this Delivery Contract, 
Supplier must return to all items provided by Kaute x, including all drawings and 
other documents, machines, appliances and tools. 

[Page 30]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 30  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
21. Confidentiality 
21.1 From time to time during the term of this Deli very Contract, either party (as the 
“Disclosing Party”) may disclose or make available to the other Party (as the “Re- 
ceiving Party”) information about its business affa irs, products, services, confi- 
dential intellectual property, trade secrets, third -party confidential information 
and other sensitive or proprietary information, whe ther orally or in written, elec- 
tronic or other form or media, and whether or not m arked, designated or other- 
wise identified as “confidential” (collectively, “C onfidential Information”). The 
Receiving Party shall: (A) protect and safeguard the confidentiality of the Disclos- 
ing Party's Confidential Information with at least the same degree of care as the 
Receiving Party would protect its own Confidential Information, but in no event 
with less than a commercially reasonable degree of care; (B) not use the Disclos- 
ing Party's Confidential Information, or permit it to be accessed or used, for any 
purpose other than to exercise its rights or perfor m its obligations under this De- 
livery Contract; and (C) not disclose any such Conf idential Information to any 
person or entity, except to the Receiving Party's r epresentatives who need to 
know the Confidential Information to assist the Rec eiving Party, or act on its be- 
half, to exercise its rights or perform its obligations under the Delivery Contract.  
21.2 Confidential Information shall not include inf ormation that, at the time of disclo- 
sure: (i) is or becomes generally available to and known by the public other than 
as a result of, directly or indirectly, any breach of this Section 21 by the Receiving 
Party; (ii) is or becomes available to the Receivin g Party on a non-confidential 
basis from a third-party source, provided that such third party is not and was not 
prohibited from disclosing such Confidential Inform ation; (iii) was known by or 
in the possession of the Receiving Party before bei ng disclosed by or on behalf of 
the Disclosing Party; (iv) was or is independently developed by the Receiving Par- 
ty without reference to or use, in whole or in part , of any of the Disclosing Party's 
Confidential Information; or (v) is required to be disclosed under applicable fed- 
eral, state or local law, regulation or a valid ord er issued by a court or govern- 
mental agency of competent jurisdiction.  

[Page 31]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 31  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
21.3 Supplier agrees to oblige its sub-supplier to comply with the same scope of non-
disclosure duties. Supplier may use the information  disclosed to it by Kautex ex- 
clusively for the use for which it was intended. 
21.4 The non-disclosure duty shall survive the term ination or expiration of this Deliv- 
ery Contract for a period of five (5) years. On the  expiration or termination of the 
Delivery Contract, Supplier agrees to return all received Confidential Information 
to Kautex, provided it in tangible form or has been  stored on electronic storage 
media. The satisfaction of these duties under the t wo last sentences must be con- 
firmed in writing to Kautex by Supplier upon Kautex 's request. In addition to all 
other remedies available at law, the Disclosing Par ty may seek equitable relief 
(including injunctive relief) against the Receiving Party and its representatives to 
prevent the breach or threatened breach of this Sec tion 21 and to secure its en- 
forcement. The expiration of this Delivery Contract  for any reason shall not im- 
pact, negate, diminish or cancel any provision of a pplicable law related to the 
protection of trade secrets. 
21.5 Each Party acknowledges that damages alone wou ld not be an adequate remedy 
in the event of a breach by the other Party of the provisions of this Clause 21. Ac- 
cordingly, it is agreed that either Party will be e ntitled, without proof of special 
damages, to seek and will seek an injunction or oth er interim remedy for any 
threatened or actual breach of this Clause 21, without prejudice to any other right 
and remedy which that Party may have. 
22. Miscellaneous Provisions 
22.1 Should a provision of these Terms prove to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, 
such provision shall be deemed to be modified or limited to the extent required to 
make it into a valid, legal and enforceable provisi on. If such change or limitation 
is not possible, the invalidity of one or several p rovisions shall not affect the va- 
lidity of the remaining provisions or the validity of the Delivery Contract. 
22.2 Supplier may not use one or several subcontrac tors to perform the delivery con- 
tract or parts thereof without the prior written approval of Kautex. 

[Page 32]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 32  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
22.3 No waiver by Kautex of any of the provisions o f this Delivery Contract is effective 
unless explicitly set forth in writing and signed b y Kautex. No failure to exercise, 
or delay in exercising, any right, remedy, power or  privilege arising from this De- 
livery Contract operates, or may be construed, as a  waiver thereof. No single or 
partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or pri vilege hereunder precludes any 
other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power 
or privilege. 
22.4 The relationship between the parties is that o f independent contractors. Nothing 
contained in this Delivery Contract shall be constr ued as creating any agency, 
partnership, joint venture or other form of joint e nterprise, employment or fidu- 
ciary relationship between the parties or its repre sentatives, and neither party 
shall have authority to contract for or bind the ot her party in any manner what- 
soever.  
22.5 This Delivery Contract is for the sole benefit  of the parties hereto and their re- 
spective successors and permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, 
is intended to or shall confer upon any other perso n or entity any legal or equita- 
ble right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoev er under or by reason of this 
Delivery Contract. 
22.6 Provisions of these Terms which by their natur e should apply beyond their terms 
will remain in force after any termination or expir ation of this Delivery Contract 
including, but not limited to, Sections 19, 21 and 23. 
23. Dispute Resolution (Governing law, Venue) 
23.1 If the location of the Kautex entity from whic h a Purchase Order is issued is in the 
United States of America, this Delivery Contract shall be interpreted and enforced 
in accordance with the local, domestic laws of the State of Michigan and of the 
United States of America, exclusive of the choice of law rules thereof. 
If the location of the Kautex entity from which a P urchase Order is issued is in 
Canada, this Delivery Contract shall be interpreted  and enforced in accordance 
with the local, domestic laws of the Province of On tario and the federal laws of 
Canada, exclusive of the choice of law rules thereof. 

[Page 33]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 33  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
If the location of the Kautex entity from which a P urchase Order is issued is in 
Mexico, this Delivery Contract shall be interpreted  and enforced in accordance 
with the local, domestic laws of the Mexico, exclus ive of the choice of law rules 
thereof. 
If the location of Buyer from which this Order issu ed is other than as set forth 
above and is not in Europe, this Order shall be int erpreted and enforced in ac- 
cordance with the local, domestic laws of the State  of Michigan and of the United 
States of America, exclusive of the choice of law rules thereof.  
For greater certainty, the United Nations Conventio n on Contracts for the Inter- 
national Sale of Goods shall not apply to these Terms or any Purchase Order. 
23.2 If the location of the Kautex entity from whic h a Purchase Order is issued is in the 
United States of America, any legal suit, action or  proceeding arising out of or re- 
lating to this Delivery Contract shall be institute d in the courts of the State of 
Michigan, in each case located in the county of Way ne and each party irrevocably 
submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of such court s in any such suit, action or 
proceeding.  
If the location of the Kautex entity from which a P urchase Order is issued is in 
Canada, any legal suit, action or proceeding arisin g out of or relating to this De- 
livery Contract shall be instituted in the courts o f the Province of Ontario and 
each party irrevocably submits to the exclusive jur isdiction of such courts in any 
such suit, action or proceeding. 
If the location of the Kautex entity from which a P urchase Order is issued is in 
Mexico, any legal suit, action or proceeding arisin g out of or relating to this De- 
livery Contract shall be subject to final and bindi ng arbitration before one (1) in- 
dependent and neutral arbitrator located in New Yor k City, New York, United 
States of America. Such arbitration shall be initia ted by filing a request for arbi- 
tration with the American Arbitration Association ( “AAA”). The arbitration, sub- 
ject to the terms of this Delivery Contract, shall be conducted pursuant to the 
Rules of Arbitration of the AAA effective at the ti me the request for arbitration is 
filed. The prevailing party, as determined by the a rbitrators, shall be entitled to 

[Page 34]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 34  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
all fees and costs associated with the arbitration,  which shall include any arbitra- 
tor fees, administrative fees, out-of-pocket expens es, and attorneys’ fees. If fees 
and costs are awarded, the application for such fee s and costs shall be presented 
to the arbitrators for approval. The arbitrator sha ll have power and authority to 
award any remedy or judgment that could be awarded by a court of law in the ap- 
plicable jurisdiction. The award rendered by arbitration shall be final and binding 
upon the parties and judgment upon the award may be  entered in any court of 
competent jurisdiction. 
23.3 All notices, requests, consents, claims, deman ds, waivers and other communica- 
tions hereunder (each, a “Notice”) shall be in writing and addressed to the parties 
at the addresses set forth on the face of the Purch ase Order or to such other ad- 
dress that may be designated by the receiving party in writing. All Notices shall be 
delivered by personal delivery, nationally recogniz ed overnight courier (with all 
fees pre-paid), facsimile (with confirmation of tra nsmission) or certified or regis- 
tered mail (in each case, return receipt requested,  postage prepaid). Except as 
otherwise provided in this Delivery Contract, a Not ice is effective only (a) upon 
receipt of the receiving party, and (b) if the part y giving the Notice has complied 
with the requirements of this Section 23.3. 
23.4 The place of performance for all duties under a contract is the location of Kautex 
to which the Goods are delivered or the Services ar e rendered as stated in the 
Purchase Order. 
24. Notice 
Each Party  shall deliver all notices, requests, co nsents, claims, demands, waivers 
and other formal legally relevant communications un der the Delivery Contract 
(each, a "Notice") in writing and addressed to the other Party at the addresses set 
forth on the S2MSA (or to such other address that m ay be designated by the re- 
ceiving party from time to time in accordance with this section). Each Party shall 
deliver all Notices by personal delivery, nationall y recognized overnight courier 
(with all fees prepaid), facsimile (with confirmati on of transmission) or certified 
or registered mail (in each case, return receipt re quested, postage prepaid). Ex- 
cept as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Not ice is effective only (a) upon 

[Page 35]
 
 
 
CD_LEG_WW_EN_Standard Terms and Conditions   Version Aug., 2017  
of Purchase for the Automotive Technology of   Page 35  of 35  
Kautex Inc., Kautex of Georgia Inc., CWC Textron (a Division of Textron Inc.),  
Kautex Corporation and Kautex Textron de Mexico, S. de R. L. de C.V. 
 
receipt by the receiving party and (b) if the party  giving the Notice has complied 
with the requirements of this Section. 
25. Service of Process 
Each of the Parties hereto irrevocably consents to the service of any and all pro- 
cess in any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Delivery 
Contract by service in person or by internationally  recognized courier (such as 
FedEX or DHL) to, or by mailing of copies of such p rocess by certified or regis- 
tered mail (or any substantially similar form of ma il) to, such Party at such Par- 
ty’s address specified in Section 24. 
26. Jury Waiver 
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXT ENT PER- 
MITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY 
JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING A RISING OUT 
OF OR RELATING TO THE DELIVER CONTRACT.  EACH PARTY  HERETO (I) 
CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY  OF ANY 
OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE , THAT 
SUCH PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF ANY ACTION, S UIT OR PRO- 
CEEDING, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND ( II) 
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTY HERETO HAS  BEEN 
INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, 
THE MUTUAL WAIVER AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. 
 