In a sweeping display of executive power, President Donald Trump announced a new baseline 10% tariff against all trading partners, in addition to a sliding scale reciprocal tariff he argued will combat the “asymmetries in trade relationships that have contributed to the atrophy of domestic production capacity.”
The baseline duty is set to go into effect at 12:01 a.m. Saturday, April 5, and will apply to all articles not already loaded into transport or en route. The reciprocal duty will go into effect similarly on Wednesday, April 9.
That brings the total to six duty-related executive actions from Trump’s second term in office. Although not all of those have been enforced to the letter, barring any stays or suspensions it’s very likely that a prolific local employer will soon face duties approaching 50%.
Headquartered in Kariya, Japan, DENSO Corporation is Tier 1 automotive supplier and influencer which, as of 2023, was ranked the second-largest parts and systems supplier in the world.
In Maryville alone, DENSO employs more than 5,000 people who manufacture and coordinate distribution for starters, alternators, instrument clusters and other automotive electronics.
As a result of both its location and business model, the corporation faces two sets of import duties: the 25% tariff levied against all steel and aluminum, and the newly announced 24% reciprocal tariff planned against all Japanese exports.
“We continue to closely monitor international trade policy developments and evaluate plans,” said one DENSO NA representative when asked for comment. “In this evolving environment, we’re focused on remaining flexible, supporting our team members and working with our supply chain to meet customer needs.”
DENSO NA declined to comment at this time on whether the proposed tariffs might increase prices for consumers or trigger internal conversations regarding possible personnel changes, but did note they would update with new information as it became available.
In February, a representative responded to a request for comment on the proposed steel and import duties with a similar statement which read, in part, that the company was “closely monitoring the situation as we continue to work with our supply chain.”
It is unclear whether Trump’s “Liberation Day” tariffs will go into effect as planned, or if, like with the original tariffs against Canadian and Mexican imports, a suspension may be issued.