[Page 1]
 SECTION 9     PAGE 1 ISSUE: 75 
DATE: 
1/20/112/22/2023 
HITACHI ASTEMO AMERICAS, INC. 
CONTROLLED COPY 
 
 
Country of Origin Requirements 
(Astemo Astemo )AM is required to report Country of Origin on their products, and products and  is 
required to comply with the American Automobile Labeling Act (AALA) and Corporate Average Fuel 
Economy (CAFÉ) regulations. To do this, we require information from the supplier so we can provide 
our customers and US Governing Bodies w ith  correct documentation. ( Astemo Astemo )AM also utilizes 
Free-Trade Agreements (referred to as FTA) for preferential duty treatment with certain countries, 
should goods qualify.  It is highly recommended that suppliers have a staff member who is competent 
in all areas of 9.1 thru 9.4. 
9.1 – Country of Origin Reporting 
9.2 – Free Trade Agreements 
9.3 – American Automobile Labeling Act (AALA) 
9.4 – Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFÉ) 
9.5 –  ( Astemo Astemo )AM Import Export Group Contacts  
9.1 - Country of Origin Reporting  
◼ (Astemo Astemo )AM  will send requests for Supplier Country of Origin Certificates (PM - Form - 232) to  ALL  
suppliers annually, and all foreign suppliers are required to list Country of Origin on Commercial Invoices to 
(Astemo Astemo )AM . For Suppliers within Free - Trade Agreement regions, it is REQUIRED  the supplier provide 
a Free-Trade Agreement Form in lieu ofIn lieu of Supplier Country of Origin Certificate (PM-Form-232) if their 
products qualify for preferential treatment.   
◼ Additionally, supplier is required to provide ( Astemo Astemo )AM a Supplier Country of Origin Certificate ( or FTA 
form)  for all parts during PPAP.  It is expected supplier Suppliers are required to  alert ( Astemo Astemo )AM 
Import/Export contacts below if there is a Country of Origin change.  
◼ Should a Country of Origin change occur within the goods ordered, it is expected for the supplier is required to 
provide an updated Supplier Country of Origin Certificate  (or FTA Form)  to ( Astemo Astemo )AM Import Export 
Group as soon as possible.  
◼ Failure to comply with the conditions above may adversely effect supplier ratings. 
9.2 - Free Trade Agreements (FTA) 
The United States of America has free trade agreements with 20 countries, in addition to Generalized System of 
Preference (GSP). What this does is allow the United States to import items from many different locations across the 
world to help grow their economies and provide competitive pricing for the US Consumer, therefore increasing the US 
Economy and the value of the US Dollar. Some of the commonly used FTAs are USMCA, CAFTA, US-Australia 
FTA, and US-Korea FTA. For more detailed information on FTAs to see if you qualify, please see the following links: 
◼  https://ustr.gov/trade-agreements/free-trade-agreements 
◼ https://ustr.gov/issue-areas/trade-development/preference-programs/generalized-system-preference-gsp 
Section 
9 

[Page 2]
 SECTION 9     PAGE 2 ISSUE: 75 
DATE: 
1/20/112/22/2023 
HITACHI ASTEMO AMERICAS, INC. 
CONTROLLED COPY 
 
 
◼ http://www.usitc.gov/publications/docs/tata/hts/bychapter/1501gn.pdf 
How Do FTAs Affect You:  The Supplier? 
◼ A good you import might be eligible for preferential treatment under the particular rules of that FTA. 
◼ (Astemo Astemo )AM  could need information from you to determine your regions FTA  eligibility for their goods.  
◼ (AstemoAstemo )AM  might have to report content to their customer and must rely on you, the supplier, to 
provide information based upon your supply chain. 
◼ OEM’s may cut cost by eliminating duties.  AAn FTA qualifying part could be more competitive. 
◼ Content information can be crucial and will become more important in the selection of suppliers. 
How Do FTAs Work? 
◼ FTA Rules of Origin are used to determine if a good crossing a border between two FTA countries is eligible 
for preferential duty treatment. 
◼ The Harmonized Tariff System of the United States (HTSUS) is the basis for utilizing the Rules of Origin for all 
FTAs.  It is the responsibility of the supplier to ensure proper classification for their parts under the HTSUS.  
This may be accomplished through internal review or consultation with a Customs Broker, Trade Attorney, etc. 
◼ Regional Value Content (RVC) is used in the Rules of Origin to establish the percentage of domestic value that 
must be achieved as imported / or domestic materials are processed into goods in a FTA country. 
9.3 - American Automobile Labeling Act (AALA) 
◼ Effective on October 1, 1994. 
◼ Administered by National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). 
◼ Requires a window sticker on new cards sold in the Unites States detailing content and origin of components. 
◼ Requires passenger cars and other light vehicles to be labeled with information about domestic and foreign 
content. 
◼ Provides the ultimate purchaser with information on the US/CA and foreign parts content of passenger cars 
sold in the United States. 
What Does ( Astemo Astemo )AM  Need From from  You, The Supplier, For AALA?  
◼ Value by country code for all components / materials of your good. 
◼ Completed and signed ( Astemo Astemo )AM  Content Reporting Form.  
For AALA, How Do You Determine the Value by Country of the Components/ Materials Used 
Inin Your Good? 
◼ Obtain vendor content information for your files. 
◼ Value is the price paid by the supplier to the customer. 
◼ Use a 12-quarter average exchange rate for foreign currency values. 
◼ “Generic Part” value is attributed to the country in which it is used. 

[Page 3]
 SECTION 9     PAGE 3 ISSUE: 75 
DATE: 
1/20/112/22/2023 
HITACHI ASTEMO AMERICAS, INC. 
CONTROLLED COPY 
 
 
◼ Import value includes the value of the imported good plus ocean freight, insurance, dutiesduties, and customs 
brokerage fees. 
◼ Overhead, generalgeneral, and administrative expenses, profit and inland freight should be included as value 
under the country where the manufacturing process takes place. 
9.4 - Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFÉ) 
◼ Regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 
◼ Requires automobile manufacturer’s fleets of passenger cars to meet an average fuel economy level on a 
model year basis. 
◼ Local content calculations are used to classify carlines sold in the United States as “domestic” or “import”.  
Local content of 75% or greater will classify a carline as “domestic”. 
For CAFÉ, How Do You Determine the Value Byby Country of the Component / Materials 
Used In Your Good? 
◼ Total value is the sales price. 
◼ Determine the value of all imported components (FOB value plus ocean freight and insurance). 
◼ Determine any Canadian value added. 
◼ United States Content = sales price – imported parts values – Canadian value added. 
9.5 –  ( Astemo Astemo )AM Import Export Group C ontacts  
◼ Harrodsburg, KY Facilities: Troy GriderAshley Rice  859-734-8924   
(Including BM, SDC, & LA) atroy.grider.hfshley.rice@hitachiastemo.com-automotive.us  
    Kevin Charles 859-734-6402   
kevin.charles.wk@hitachiastemo.com-automotive.us  
 
◼ Berea (BK), KY Facility: Alexei Tioukalov  859-985-2159  
alexei.tioukalov.vp@hitachiastemo.com-automotive.us 
 
◼ Monroe, GA Facility: Debra WashingtonDeyatae Willingham 770-207-0050 
Debra.washingtonyatae.willingham.um@hitachiastemo.com-automotive.us 
 
 
Field Code Changed
Field Code Changed
Formatted: Indent: Left:  0"

[Page 4]
 SECTION 9     PAGE 4 ISSUE: 75 
DATE: 
1/20/112/22/2023 
HITACHI ASTEMO AMERICAS, INC. 
CONTROLLED COPY 
 
 
This page intentionally left blank. 