[Page 1]
 
 
 
Terms and Conditions of Sale 
Thermal Ceramics Inc. 
 
January 2018 
 
 www.morganadvancedmaterials.com 
 Thermal Ceramics is a business of Morgan Advanced Materials 
Morgan Advanced Materials - Internal 
1. Applicability.  All shipments, services, sales and quotations between 
Thermal Ceramics Inc., a Delaware corporation (“ Seller” or “ us” or 
“we”), and its Buyer (the “ Buyer” or “ you”) are subject to these 
general terms and conditions of sale (these “ Terms”).  They are, 
therefore, also valid for all future business transactions between 
Seller and Buyer, even in cases where they are not expressly 
specified or re-agreed upon.   
2. Dissenting or Additional Terms .  Dissenting or additional terms or 
conditions of business that may be proposed from time to time by 
Buyer are not binding upon Seller, unless they are expressly 
confirmed by Seller in writing.  The mere acceptance of a purchase 
order containing such dissenting or additional terms and conditions 
shall not bind Seller to the same, and Seller expressly rejects all of 
Buyer’s general terms and conditions of business that are opposed 
to or in addition to these Terms. 
3. Oral Terms Not Binding .  Agreements, supplements or 
understandings made by phone or orally that deviate from these 
Terms are not binding, unless they have been confirmed in writing by 
the party to be bound. 
4. Issuance of Purchase Orders .  All quotations are without obligation 
and are not binding upon Seller.  Buyer will submit to Seller one or 
more purchase orders substantially in the form attached hereto as 
Exhibit A (each, a “ Purchase Order ”) identifying the products Buyer 
desires to purchase for sale and distribution, for inventory, or 
otherwise.  Each Purchase Order may include other terms and 
conditions that are consistent with these Terms or that are necessary 
to place the Purchase Order, such as billing and shipping 
information, target delivery dates, the delivery location, quantities, 
and the purchase price or charges for the products.  Buyer will place 
Purchase Orders by email, telephone, fax, or mail, and will promptly 
follow orders placed by telephone with a written Purchase Order.  
5. Acceptance of Purchase Orders .  Each Purchase Order shall be 
subject to the acceptance by Seller in its sole discretion.  Seller will 
indicate its acceptance of Purchase Orders or alterations to 
Purchase Orders by providing to Buyer a written acceptance of such 
Purchase Orders (whether by mail, email, telecopy or other means).  
In the absence of any written acknowledgement or written 
acceptance of the Purchase Order, shipment of goods ordered shall 
be deemed acceptance of such Purchase Order. 
6. Purchase Order Alteration and Cancellation.  Prior to shipment of the 
products ordered by Buyer, Seller will accept an alteration to a 
Purchase Order that: (i) changes a location for delivery; (ii) modifies 
the quantity or type of products to be delivered; or (iii) corrects 
typographical or clerical errors.  Buyer may cancel a Purchase Order 
without charge or penalty if Buyer provides Seller with a written 
notice of such cancellation at least ninety (90) days prior to the 
scheduled or anticipated date of shipment of the products specified 
in such Purchase Order.  Except as otherwise provided in this 
Section 6, a Purchase Order once placed with and accepted by 
Seller cannot be cancelled or amended, including any amendment 
that changes drawings and specifications as to any goods and/or 
work covered by the Purchase Order except with Seller’s written 
consent and upon terms that reflect any changes in price or time for 
performance and that will indemnify Seller for all losses incurred by 
Seller associated with the Buyer’s amendment or cancellation, 
including but not limited to the costs already incurred by Seller in the 
performance of its contractual duties and any profits that Seller 
would have received had the contract been completed.   
7. Price and Discounts .  Unless otherwise agreed or provided herein, 
the prices to Buyer of products sold hereunder by Seller shall be 
based on the price list established by Seller from time to time 
(“Suggested Price List ”).  Seller reserves the right to change the 
Suggested Price List in its sole discretion from time to time.  All 
prices reflected in any order accepted by Seller or quoted by Seller 
shall be on a net basis F.C.A. ( Incoterms 2010 ) Seller’s loading 
dock.  Unless otherwise specified on the face of the Purchase Order, 
all packaging and cartage charges special containers, packaging, 
crating, palletizing, applicable taxes and duties, freight, insurance or 
other incidental expenditures and taxes payable in the country of 
manufacture shall be paid by Buyer and are deemed excluded from 
the purchase price.  If Seller is required by applicable law or 
regulation to pay or collect any such tax or taxes on account of this 
transaction on the material or equipment or services covered hereby, 
then such amount of tax shall be paid by the Buyer in addition to the 
prices provided for herein.   All prices are in U.S. Dollars and all 
payments shall be in U.S. Dollars. 
8. Payment.  Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Seller, payment 
of the total purchase order price is due and payable within thirty (30) 
calendar days from the date of shipment.  Time is of the essence 
with respect to all of Buyer’s payment obligations hereunder.  Seller 
reserves the right to change any credit terms offered to Buyer at any 
time, when in Seller’s opinion, Buyer’s financial condition or previous 
payment record so warrants.  Buyer grants Seller a continuing 
security interest in the products purchased by Buyer from Seller and 
the proceeds thereof.  Such security interest secures all obligations 
of Buyer to Seller with respect to products bought and sold from 
Seller.  Buyer agrees from time to time to execute such documents 
as Seller deems necessary to perfect Seller’s security interest.  
9. Interest.  No products shall be shipped to Buyer if Buyer has an 
outstanding invoice over ten (10) days past due.  All amounts on 
invoices that are overdue shall bear interest from the due date until 
the payment is received by Seller at a rate of interest equal to the 
lesser of one and one half percent (1½%) per month or the 
maximum rate permitted by applicable law. 
10. Account Information .  All payments shall be remitted to Seller’s 
account communicated to Buyer from time to time.  Seller shall have 
the right to change such account from time to time upon a written 
notice to Buyer. 
11. Credit.  In the event that Buyer fails to pay any sum Buyer owes as 
set forth herein, in addition to the interest due Seller as set forth in 
Section 9 hereof, Seller may require Buyer to provide Seller with 
such additional security of performance as Seller deems appropriate, 
which security may include without limitation: (i) imposition of credit 
limits; (ii) requiring Buyer to pay for the products prior to Seller’s 
acceptance of the Purchase Order for such products or Seller’s 
shipment of any products; (iii) requiring Buyer to obtain a letter of 
credit or like security; (iv) requiring Buyer’s principal owners or other 
third parties to guarantee payment personally of any sums Buyer 

[Page 2]
Terms and Conditions of Sale 
Thermal Ceramics Inc. 
 January 2018 
 
 www.morganadvancedmaterials.com 
 Thermal Ceramics is a business of Morgan Advanced Materials 
Morgan Advanced Materials - Internal 
owes Seller; (v) requiring Buyer to provide Seller with other collateral 
or security; and (vi) requiring Buyer to execute such documentation, 
or to cause designated third parties to execute such documentation, 
as Seller deems appropriate to effect the foregoing. 
12. Delivery or Performance Dates .  Seller will use commercially 
reasonable efforts to meet specified delivery or performance dates; 
however, all terms and dates are estimates only and are not binding, 
unless a written agreement to the contrary is made.  Delays in 
delivery or performance do not entitle Buyer to cancel any order, 
refuse any items, or claim damages. 
13. Delay Caused by Force Majeure .  Even if binding terms or dates are 
agreed upon, Seller shall not be liable for damages occasioned by a 
delay in performance or delivery caused by force majeure or similar 
circumstances that make delivery or service difficult if not impossible 
for Seller.  This includes problems caused in whole or in part by an 
act of God, war, insurrection, civil commotion, strike, flood, fire, 
earthquake, domestic violence, terrorism, lockout, embargo, lack of 
water, materials, power, or telephone transmissions specified or 
reasonably necessary in connection with these Terms, hurricanes, 
unavoidable casualties, and any other occurrence, event, or 
condition beyond the reasonable control of Seller (a “ Force Majeure 
Event”).  Seller shall promptly notify Buyer of such Force Majeure 
Event.  Such circumstances entitle Seller to postpone delivery by the 
period of their duration plus a reasonable starting up time or to 
cancel any Purchase Order or part thereof not yet fulfilled.  In the 
case of a restriction lasting longer than three (3) months, Buyer shall 
have the right to terminate all or any unshipped part of the Purchase 
Order not yet filled.  Such right of cancellation shall be Buyer’s 
exclusive remedy. 
14. Product Shortage, Partial Shipment and Back Orders .  Seller will 
notify Buyer of product shortages and will use commercially 
reasonable efforts to fill the open Purchase Orders.  Seller may, on 
notice to Buyer and with Buyer’s consent, make partial shipments of 
Buyer’s orders, which Seller may invoice separately, and which 
shipments Buyer will pay for when due.  Delay in delivery of any 
installment will not relieve Buyer of its obligation to accept the 
remaining deliveries, unless Buyer cancels such shipments as set 
forth in Section 6 hereof.  Seller will use commercially reasonable 
efforts to fill all Purchase Orders placed by Buyer but does not 
guarantee it will have sufficient products to fill all orders in a timely 
manner.  The parties agree that Seller is not liable for its failure to 
timely fill all Purchase Orders and for delays in shipment.  
15. Over shipments .  Seller may ship and Invoice for overages as 
follows: 
Number of Pieces or Sets 
Specified on Order 
Allowable Overage 
Extra Pieces or Sets 
1 to 10 
 
11 to 100 
101 to 250 
251 to 750 
751 to 1,500 
1,501 to 5,000 
5,001 to 10,000 
Over 10,000 
1 Shape 
If in sets, 1 complete set 
10% 
7% 
5% 
4% 
3% 
2% 
1% 
 
16. Non-Returnable Containers .  Since Seller's shipments are made in 
"single trip" non -returnable containers, Seller makes no allowances 
for the return of any container. 
17. Molds.  Mold charges do not convey title to or right of possession of 
molds. Seller will maintain in molds, provided there is no change In 
Buyer's specifications or design, but reserves the right to discard 
them if no orders are received within a period of three years.  
18. Title and Risk of Loss; Transportation . Title to and all risks of loss 
and liability for damages shall pass to Buyer upon delivery by Seller 
to a common carrier at the F.C.A. point ( i.e., Seller’s loading dock).  
Buyer shall be responsible for all insurance and transportation 
charges from the F.C.A. point.  Seller will from time to time and as 
the Buyer’s agent, make all necessary shipping arrangements, and 
unless the Buyer specifies otherwise in writing, purchase full value 
insurance for the items while in transit.  Unless instructed by Buyer 
on shipping method, placement of values and carrier, Seller will use 
its own discretion thereon.  Seller will invoice Buyer and Buyer 
agrees to reimburse Seller for all charges incurred on behalf of 
Buyer, including insurance, transportation costs and any packaging 
costs that may result from Buyer specifying a particular mode of 
transportation.  If Seller delivers the products to Buyer from the 
F.C.A. point using Seller’s trucks and/or drivers, Seller does so only 
as a courtesy and accommodation to Buyer and the terms of sale 
remain F.C.A. Seller’s loading dock. 
19. Insurance During Transit .  Buyer shall insure the items for their full 
value during transit from the F.C.A. point, with such insurance to 
contain a provision waiving all rights of subrogation against Seller 
and its employees, agents, and representatives with respect to 
losses payable under such policy.  Buyer hereby waives and 
releases Seller and its employees, agents, and representatives of 
and from any and all rights of recovery, claim, action or cause of 
action for any loss or damage that may occur to the products during 
transit regardless of cause or origin, including the negligence of 
Seller or its employees, agents, or representatives, and Buyer 
acknowledges that the foregoing waiver and release is intended to 
result in any such loss or damage being borne by the insurance 
carrier of Buyer, or by Buyer if Buyer fails to obtain and maintain the 
insurance required hereunder.  
20. Drop Shipment; Buyer’s Duty to Inspect .  From time to time Buyer 
may request Seller to drop ship the products directly to the buyers of 
Buyer.  In such event Buyer shall bear all credit risks associated 
therewith.  Buyer (or its buyer in the case of a drop shipment by 
Seller to such Buyer) shall inspect the products upon receipt.  Failure 
of Buyer (or its buyer in the case of a drop shipment by Seller to 
such buyer) to inspect the products and/or failure to notify Seller in 
writing of any noncompliance, shortage or other reason for its 
rejection of any of such goods within such period as set forth in 
Section 19 hereof and the specific grounds for rejection shall 
constitute irrevocable acceptance of such goods. Seller accepts no 
responsibility for breakage, damage or losses occurring after delivery 
by Seller to the carrier.  All claims in such regard should be made 
direct to the carrier. 
21. Returned Products.  Seller shall not be required to accept products 
for return.  If Buyer desires to return any products, it shall seek the 
prior written approval of Seller for such return.  All products accepted 
for return must be in a re -saleable condition when delivered to Seller 
and must be returned to Seller within thirty (30) days of the delivery 
of the products by Seller to Buyer or to the buyers of Buyer in the 
case of a drop shipment set forth in Section  20 hereof.  Returned 
products are subject to a 20 percent (20%) restocking fee.  Buyer 
shall bear all freight costs and other charges for the return of the 
products.  Upon the receipt of the returned products, Seller shall 
credit the account of the Buyer (subject to the restocking fee), and 

[Page 3]
Terms and Conditions of Sale 
Thermal Ceramics Inc. 
 January 2018 
 
 www.morganadvancedmaterials.com 
 Thermal Ceramics is a business of Morgan Advanced Materials 
Morgan Advanced Materials - Internal 
such credits shall be applied towards outstanding invoices or future 
purchases if no invoices are then outstanding. 
22. Nonconforming Products.  All materials shall be furnished subject to 
Seller's standard manufacturing variations and practices.  Buyer may 
provide written notice of acceptance of the products to Seller.  
However, in the absence of Buyer’s written acceptance, acceptance 
shall be deemed to occur thirty (30) days after delivery of the 
products to Buyer or buyers of Buyer in the case of a dropped 
shipment to such buyers by Seller (the “Inspection Period”).  If Buyer 
does not notify Seller of any defects or non -conformities within the 
Inspection Period, the products shall be deemed accepted by Buyer, 
and Buyer shall be deemed to have waived any claim relating to 
defects or non -conformities in the products that would have been 
apparent upon a reasonable inspection of the products.  If any 
products covered by the purchase order are determined by Buyer 
during the Inspection Period to be defective or otherwise not in 
conformity with the requirements of the purchase order, Buyer will 
promptly notify Seller of such defects or non -conformities and either 
return the products to Seller or dispose of the products at Seller’s 
request, direction and expense.  In such event, Seller shall, at its 
option, either (i) refund the full purchase price of the non -conforming 
or defective products; or (ii)  replace the non -conforming or defective 
products with conforming products without defects.  The foregoing 
shall be the sole and exclusive remedy of Buyer for nonconforming 
products.  In no event is Buyer entitled to retain payments due 
Seller, except upon the written consent of Seller. 
23. Unsold Products.  Upon the expiration, cancellation or termination of 
these Terms for any reason, Seller shall have the option (but not the 
duty) exercisable by written notice, to purchase from Buyer within 
thirty (30) days after the effective date of such expiration, 
cancellation or termination, all of the products in Buyer’s inventory 
that remain unsold by Buyer on the effective date of such expiration, 
cancellation or termination, at the same price at which such products 
were purchased by Buyer from Seller, provided that such products 
are in good and saleable condition.  Buyer will ship such inventory to 
Seller as Seller reasonably directs, freight prepaid. 
24. Limited Warranty .  Seller warrants that all goods sold hereunder 
shall be free from defects in material and workmanship and shall 
conform to Seller’s applicable specifications at the time of their 
delivery to the F.C.A. point and for a period of ninety (90) days 
thereafter (the “Warranty Period”).  THE FOREGOING WARRANTY 
IS IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES 
OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE, ALL OF WHICH ARE SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMED.  
Determination of the suitability of the products for the uses and 
applications contemplated by Buyer shall be the sole responsibility of 
Buyer.  Buyer assumes all risks and liabilities for the results obtained 
by the use of the products, whether used alone or in combination 
with other material.  Seller makes no warranty or guaranty with 
respect to the results to be obtained by the use of the products.  Any 
warranty claims must be made within the Warranty Period, and any 
warranty claims not made during the Warranty Period shall be 
deemed waived by Buyer. 
25. Liability of Seller .  In the event of a warranty claim made during the 
Warranty Period and accepted by Seller, Seller shall have the option 
to either (i) replace the product(s) allegedly failing to comply with 
such warranty by delivering a like quantity of the product(s) meeting 
the descriptions and specifications referenced in the purchase order 
for such product(s), or (ii) refund the total purchase price for the 
product(s) allegedly failing to comply with such warranty.  The 
foregoing shall be the sole and exclusive remedy of Buyer for breach 
of warranty by Seller.  Defective products shall be returned or 
disposed of as directed by Seller.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
LIABILITY OF SELLER TO BUYER, WHETHER BASED IN 
CONTRACT, IN TORT OR OTHERWISE, EXCEED THE PRICE OF 
THE PRODUCTS WITH RESPECT TO WHICH SELLER’S 
LIABILITY IS CLAIMED, AND IN NO EVENT WILL SELLER BE 
LIABLE TO BUYER FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL 
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY NATURE, WHETHER 
BASED IN CONTRACT, IN TORT OR OTHERWISE, THAT ARISE 
IN CONNECTION WITH THE PRODUCTS OR IN CONNECTION 
WITH EITHER SELLER’S FAILURE TO DELIVER OR ITS LATE 
DELIVERY OF THE PRODUCTS (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED 
TO, LOSS OF USE OF THE PRODUCTS AND LOSS OF 
PROFITS).  Buyer acknowledges that the remedies provided herein 
are exclusive and in lieu of all other remedies available to Buyer at 
law or in equity. 
26. Assignment.  Buyer may not assign these Terms without the express 
prior written consent of Seller.  These Terms shall be binding upon 
and shall inure to the benefit of Seller and its successors and 
assigns, and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Buyer 
and its permitted assignees. 
27. Entire Agreement .  Except as otherwise expressly provided in a 
written document signed by Seller and Buyer, these Terms contain 
the complete and final agreement between Buyer and Seller with 
respect to the subject matter herein contained and supersede all 
prior agreements and communications between Seller and Buyer, 
whether oral or written. 
28. No Implied Waivers.  No modification, limitation, waiver or discharge 
of these terms or conditions shall bind Seller unless in writing and 
signed by an authorized officer, agent, or employee of Seller.  No 
waiver or failure of Seller to insist, in one or more instances, on 
performance by Buyer in strict compliance with of any provision of 
these Terms hereof on any one occasion shall be deemed to be a 
waiver of the same or of any other right granted hereunder with 
respect to any succeeding breach of the same or other provision 
hereof.  
29. Notices.  All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in 
writing and shall be deemed to have been given only if and when (i) 
personally delivered;  (ii) five (5) business days after mailing, 
postage prepaid, first class air mail; (iii) when delivered (and 
receipted for) by an express delivery service; or (iv) when first sent 
by telex, telecopy or other means of instantaneous communication, 
provided such communication is properly confirmed by personal 
delivery, mail or an express delivery service as provided above, 
addressed in each case at the address set forth as the 
communications address on the Purchase Orders or at such other 
address as either party may specify from time to time in writing in 
accordance with this provision. 
30. Governing Law.  These Terms and any agreement resulting from the 
acceptance of a Purchase Order shall be construed pursuant to the 
laws of the state of Georgia without giving effect to its conflicts of 
laws provisions.  The parties agree that the United Nations 
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does 
not apply. 
31. Arbitration and Submission to Jurisdiction .  All disputes and claims 
relating to any provision hereof or relating to or arising out of the 

[Page 4]
Terms and Conditions of Sale 
Thermal Ceramics Inc. 
 January 2018 
 
 www.morganadvancedmaterials.com 
 Thermal Ceramics is a business of Morgan Advanced Materials 
Morgan Advanced Materials - Internal 
parties’ relationship or creation or termination thereof (including, 
without limitation, any claims that any provision of these Terms, any 
specification, standard or operating procedure or any other obligation 
of Seller or of Buyer is illegal or otherwise unenforceable or voidable 
under law, ordinance or ruling) shall be resolved by binding 
arbitration in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the 
American Arbitration Association (“AAA”).  The arbitration will be 
conducted at the offices of the AAA in Atlanta, Georgia before an 
independent and impartial arbitrator.  Each party consents and 
submits to the personal jurisdiction and venue of the state or local 
trial courts located in Atlanta, Georgia and also to the personal 
jurisdiction and venue of the United States District Court for the 
Northern District of Georgia for purposes of enforcing this provision.  
All awards of the arbitration shall be binding and non -appealable 
except as otherwise provided in the United States Arbitration Act (9 
U.S.C., § 1, et seq.).  Judgment upon the award of the arbitrator may 
be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.  The arbitration 
shall take place at a time noticed by the AAA regardless of whether 
one of the parties fails or refuses to participate.  The foregoing 
provision shall not preclude either party from bringing an action in 
any court of competent jurisdiction for injunctive or other provisional 
relief as necessary or appropriate.  The arbitrator may award 
attorneys’ fees and costs in connection with the arbitration 
proceeding in addition to any other relief that may be granted.  
32. Severability.  In case any terms or conditions contained herein 
should be or become invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, 
such terms and conditions shall be deemed to be severable from the 
remainder of these Terms and shall not cause the invalidity or 
unenforceability of the remainder of these Terms. 
33. Section References and Headings .  Any reference in these Terms to 
a section or subsection shall be deemed to include a reference to 
any subsidiary sections whenever the context requires.  The 
headings are for convenience only and are not to be used in the 
construction or interpretation of these Terms. 
34. Compliance with Law .  Buyer and Seller shall comply with all 
applicable local, state and federal laws, order, rules and regulations. 
Buyer represents and warrants Seller that it is, and shall continue to 
be, in compliance with all applicable export controls of the United 
States Government. Buyer shall also comply with all Seller policies 
communicated to Buyer by Seller. 
35. Indemnity.  Buyer agrees to indemnify and hold Seller, its affiliates, 
officers, directors, employees and agents, harmless from and 
against all liability, loss, damage, costs and expenses including, but 
not limited to, costs and expenses of litigation and reasonable 
attorneys’ fees, that Seller hereafter may incur or that Seller may 
reimburse to a third party as the result of any claim, action or right of 
action, at law or in equity, arising out of (A)  Buyer’s non-compliance 
or breach of these Terms and any representation or warranty 
contained herein; (B) any infringement or alleged infringement of any 
license, patent, copyright or any other intellectual property right; or 
(C) any injury (including death) to any person or damage to any 
property occurring as a result of, or caused in whole or in part by, 
acts or omissions of Buyer or its agents, officers, directors, 
employees, any subcontractor or its employees, or any person, firm 
or corporation employed or engaged by Buyer.  Buyer hereby waives 
and releases Seller from any and all rights of recovery, claims, 
actions or causes of action that Buyer may have against Seller with 
respect to those matters that Buyer has agreed to indemnify Seller 
hereunder.  Buyer shall not be liable to Seller for loss, damage, costs 
and expenses which are the direct result of the gross negligence or 
intentional conduct of Seller. 
  

[Page 5]
Terms and Conditions of Sale 
Thermal Ceramics Inc. 
 
Morgan Advanced Materials - Internal 
EXHIBIT A 
PURCHASE ORDER 
BUYER:      PURCHASE ORDER  
          
   
Phone:                                 Fax:     
          
  Vendor Number:   PO Date:    
          
SELLER: THERMAL CERAMICS INC. 
SHIP TO 
    
  P.O. BOX 923        
  2102 Old Savannah Road, 30906     
  Augusta, Georgia  30903       
           
                  
          
          
  SHIP COLLECT VIA:     F.C.A.  
 SHIPPING POINT  
           
ITEM QTY U/M DESCRIPTION TARGET DELIVERY 
DATE UNIT PRICE 
         
       
       
         
          
   SHIPPING INSTRUCTIONS:      
This Purchase Order is subject to the Thermal Ceramics Inc.  Terms and Conditions of Sale , which are incorporated into this Purchase Order by reference.  By 
executing this Purchase Order, the Buyer identified above represents and warrants to Seller that it has received and read such Terms and Conditions and that it 
understands and agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions contained therein. 
 
BUYER: 
 
 
 
 
By:  ______________________________________ 
        Name:   
        Title:  
Accepted as of this _____ day of ___________, 20__. 
 
THERMAL CERAMICS INC. 
 
 
 
By: __________________________________ 
      Name: 
      Title: 
 
 