Daesol Material Georgia, LLC Creates 110 Jobs in Harris County
Staff Report From Columbus CEO
Thursday, December 21st, 2017
The Georgia Department of Economic Development announced that Daesol Material Georgia, LLC has completed the construction of their new Harris County manufacturing facility, creating 110 jobs. Daesol Material Georgia, a manufacturer of automotive fiber padding, invested $35 million in the construction and equipping of a 120,000-square-foot facility located in the Northwest Harris Business Park.
“Congratulations to Daesol on completing construction of their new manufacturing facility,” said GDEcD Commissioner Pat Wilson. “As a key supplier within Georgia’s thriving automotive industry, we believe Daesol will be perfectly situated to serve their growing customer base from Harris County.”
Daesol will produce automotive fiber padding for its nearby sister company, DAEHON Solution, which supplies noise, vibration and harshness system engineering and interior components for the Kia Motors Manufacturing Georgia plant in West Point.
“We are delighted to have finished constructing our Harris County manufacturing facility,” said President of Daesol Material Georgia Richard Park “We’re committed to delivering world class service that exceeds our clients’ requirements and expectations, and look forward to continuing doing business in Georgia.”
The Harris County Development Authority worked with the Georgia Department of Economic Development, the City of West Point and The Valley Partnership Joint Development Authority throughout this project.
“We are honored that Daesol Material Georgia will begin operations in our Northwest Harris Business Park,” said Harry Lange, Harris County Commission Chairman. “We have a wonderful relationship with the sister company, Daehan Solution, and we have been working closely with company officials to get this new venture completed. We anticipate that both companies will make many years of contributions of great jobs and investments in Harris County.”