Strategic Collaboration Aims to Tariff-Proof Manufacturing for U.S. OEMs
SAN FRANCISCO, April 8, 2025 /PRNewswire/ -- Fictiv, a global supply chain solutions leader, has created a strategic partnership with EVCO Plastics, a leading custom plastics and contract manufacturer, to revolutionize injection molding services. This alliance combines Fictiv's digitally connected global supply chain with EVCO's extensive manufacturing capabilities, enabling customers to efficiently bring innovations from concept to scale production.
The partnership leverages EVCO's vast manufacturing resources, including over 1 million square feet of manufacturing space, hundreds of injection molding machines - including press sizes as big as 4,400 tons - and a relentless focus on continuous improvement. It also combines deep expertise in design for manufacturability (DFM), AI, human-powered materials data and insights, program management, and global logistics. All aim to mitigate tariff concerns and deliver a highly resilient, fully managed supply chain to OEMs across multiple industries.
Mexico's emerging ecosystem, which supports highly engineered products, is still in its formative stages and, as a result, quite fragmented. Navigating the landscape can be challenging, especially for tooling and specialized secondary processes. Fictiv streamlines and mitigates these complexities, allowing OEMs to do more with less, improve material sourcing, and lower BOM costs. For example, innovative solutions like Fictiv GlobalFlex integrate tooling inserts produced in China and run in next-generation manufacturing facilities in the U.S. and Mexico. This synergy enhances gross margins, accelerates production timelines, and elevates customer experiences.
Fictiv's collaboration with EVCO supports the entire product lifecycle, encompassing 3D printing, injection molding, assembly, testing, and packaging. Advanced capabilities include overmolding, gas-assist molding, in-mold decorating, and liquid silicone rubber (LSR) production.
Numerous certifications, including ISO 9001:2015, ISO 13485, IATF 16949, and FDA compliance, back the partnership, ensuring quality and reliability throughout the supply chain.
"Our partnership with EVCO marks a crucial step in simplifying global manufacturing supply chains," said Dave Evans, Co-Founder and CEO of Fictiv. "Together, we can reduce the overall number of suppliers and 'papercuts' involved in managing multiple suppliers to deliver efficiency and predictability in an unpredictable world."
Carlos Gonzales, head of EVCO Plastics de Mexico, added, "Fictiv's capabilities allow us to concentrate on manufacturing excellence while Fictiv tackles the complex workflow and supply chain challenges that impact OEM margins. It's the best of both worlds coming together."
The Fictiv-EVCO collaboration aims to provide scalable, tailored solutions, underscoring a shared commitment to innovation, quality, and sustainability in the manufacturing sector.
For more information, visit [Fictiv](www.fictiv.com) and [EVCO Plastics](www.evcoplastics.com).
About Fictiv
Fictiv is a global manufacturing and supply chain company that enables organizations to scale globally without the typical barriers of cost, complexity, and risk. By leveraging Fictiv's four global manufacturing centers in India, Mexico, China, and the U.S., companies can access high-quality production, optimize supply chain logistics, and mitigate supply chain risk—ensuring they can move from prototype to full-scale manufacturing with speed and confidence. To date, Fictiv has delivered more than 35 million commercial and prototype parts for early-stage companies and large enterprises alike, helping them innovate faster, free up precious resources, and drive profitable growth. For more information about Fictiv, visit www.fictiv.com.
About EVCO Plastics
EVCO Plastics is a leading plastics manufacturing company with 13 manufacturing facilities strategically located throughout the world. With an emphasis on design for manufacturability, strategic engineering and innovative technology, EVCO is recognized as a global leader in custom plastic injection molding. EVCO was founded in 1964, employs over 2,100 people and operates 270 injection molding machines, ranging from 28 to 4,400 tons. For more information about EVCO, visit www.evcoplastics.com.
Media Contacts:
Fictiv
Jennifer Shambroom, CMO
[email protected]
EVCO Plastics
Anna Bartz, VP Communications
[email protected]
SOURCE Fictiv