[Page 1]
 
 
Customs Instructions for Suppliers Shipping to 
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company 
 
 
The purpose of these instructions is to communicate to Goodyear’s suppliers what is required for the 
products they are supplying to be entered into the United States in accordance with the laws and regulations 
set forth by U.S. Customs & Border Protection.  Primarily these instructions deal with the Customs 
processes, documentation preparation and document distribution. 
 
While we are attempting to provide detailed information on the proper procedures for preparing shipping 
documents for Customs purposes, suppliers are required to exercise reasonable care in gathering updated 
information in order to abide by each government’s compliance statutes.  The information provided here is 
a tool and is by no means intended to include all required instructions and/or documents.  It is the supplier’s 
responsibility to know what is necessary and comply with any unique laws or statutes. 
 
Goodyear cannot efficiently manufacture its products unless all suppliers comply with the 
instructions contained herein.  These instructions are designed to reduce the non-value added costs 
associated with repeated phone calls, letters, and follow-up activity necessary when all the required 
information to make entry is not provided.  Suppliers who fail to comply with these instructions 
could face penalties for failure to comply.  
 
Any questions concerning these instructions should be directed to your contact in Goodyear’s Purchasing 
Department.  If that individual cannot answer your questions, they will contact the Customs Compliance 
Department. 
 
 
Invoice Information 
 
In order to meet U.S. Customs & Border Protection invoicing requirements, it is imperative that suppliers 
prepare a complete and accurate list of the actual cargo being shipped.  To facilitate this process, a 
complete listing of required information is shown below.  The supplier MUST provide all of this 
information on the commercial information.  The supplier may use their own invoice or the format 
provided with these instructions (See Appendix A - Commercial Invoice).  Regardless of the format 
chosen, the necessary information must be supplied. 
 
- Date of the invoice 
- Invoice number 
- Port of entry to which the merchandise is destined 
- Shipper/Seller (Name and address of the seller or the goods)  
- Manufacturer’s complete name & address if different from seller 
- Ship To/Consignee (Name and address of the party receiving the goods) 
- Sold To/Bill To (Name and address of the importer if different from the Consignee) 
- Purchase order number 
- Quantity of goods being imported 
- Goodyear part number/product code for each line item being purchased  
- Detailed description of the merchandise (See comments under HTS Codes) 
- Weights of goods being imported 
- Unit price and  extended total for all line items 

[Page 2]
- Currency of the transaction 
- All relevant discounts 
- Country of origin of each item 
- Terms of sale of the transaction 
- The entire invoice must be in English, or an English translation provided. 
- Goods or services furnished for production of merchandise not otherwise included in the invoice price 
- Name and signature of a responsible individual (an employee of the seller or shipper) who can readily 
obtain knowledge of the transaction. 
- All charges upon the merchandise (i.e. freight, insurance, commission, packaging, containers, etc) 
- Detailed packing list advising what is in each individual package. 
 
 
Item Description & HTS US Code 
 
In order for Goodyear’s Customs Broker to accurately classify imported goods, a must process for any 
imported good, and accurate and complete description of each good (i.e. each part number) is required on 
the commercial invoice.  It is the description for each good that is: 
 
a) Utilized by the Customs Broker to classify (i.e. assign a Harmonized Tariff Code) each good. 
b) It is the Harmonized Tariff code that determines the duty to be paid by Goodyear. 
 
Based on the foregoing process, an accurate or incomplete description can have adverse consequences for 
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company.  Namely,  
 
a) An overpayment of duty. 
b) An underpayment of duty, resulting in additional fines and/or penalties. 
c) Delay a shipment pending written clarification from the supplier to Goodyear’s Customs Broker 
prior to release of the goods by Customs authorities.   
 
It is beyond the scope of these instructions to provide specific guidelines to describe all goods that The 
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company purchases.  However, as a general rule, if the description of the good 
answers the following questions, the broker will be in a better position to accurately classify the goods for 
Customs.   
 
a) What is the good? 
b) What is the good made of? 
c) What are the physical characteristics of the good? 
d) What are the chemical properties of the good? 
e) What is the good used for? 
 
In addition, you may be asked to provide pictures, brochures, samples, etc of the product you provide to 
Goodyear.  Please be prepared to respond to any inquiries of this nature in a timely manner. 
 
If you know the correct tariff code as designated by US Customs & Border Protection, then it should be 
provided.  If you are in doubt as to the accuracy of descriptions that you use, please consult your customs 
broker or your legal staff.   
 
Information on the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States can be found at:   
 
www.usitc.gov/tata/hts/by chapter/index.htm. 
 
You are encouraged to review this web site and provide a product description in a manner similar to that 
used in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule.  
 
 
 

[Page 3]
Goodyear Material Detail Sheet 
 
In order to provide the information necessary for accurate entry, completion of the Goodyear Material 
Detail Worksheet may prove helpful.  This sheet is provided for a supplier’s use as needed.  It is not 
mandatory that it be completed.   
 
 
Packaging Material 
 
Suppliers are expected to utilize and certify that all packaging material conforms to U.S. Customs & Border 
Protection standards.  Specifically, a supplier will certify that any wood packaging material has been either 
heat treated or fumigated with methyl bromide.  That being the case, the wood packaging material must be 
appropriately marked in a visible location with a legible and permanent mark that indicates the article 
complies with IPPC Guidelines which meet the requirements of U.S. Customs & Border Protection.  
Information relating to wood packaging material is provided as Appendix B.  Additional information 
concerning wood packaging material can be found at:  
 
www.cbp.gov/linkhandler/cgov/import/commercial_enforcement/wpm/importation_wood.ctt/importation_
wood.pdf. 
 
 
Fabric Quotas & Visa Information 
 
THE IMPORTATION OF FABRIC IS A HIGHLY REGULATED COMMODITY.  FAILURE TO 
ADHERE TO ALL REGULATIONS THAT RELATE TO THE IMPORTATION OF FABRIC 
CAN CARRY SERIOUS AND COSTLY PENALTIES. 
 
If you are a supplier of fabric in any form it is your responsibility to review, and be familiar with, the quota 
requirements as they relate to the product you are providing.  It shall also be your responsibility to provide 
the necessary visas in accordance with the laws and regulations of U.S. Customs & Border Protection.  
 
Furthermore, in order for Goodyear’s broker to accurately classify the product, it is necessary for you to 
complete the Fabric Detail Sheet.  This worksheet is provided as Appendix C. 
 
U.S. Customs & Border Protection offers the following publication as a guide to the importation of fabric: 
 
What Every Member of the Trade Community Should Know About: 
Fibers and Yarns: Construction and Classification Under the HTSUS 
 
A copy of this publication is included as Appendix D.  It can also be found at: 
 
http://www.cbp.gov/xp/cgov/toolbox/legal/informed_compliance_pubs/ 
 
 
Country of Origin 
 
The Code of Federal Regulations (19 CFR 134.11) states: 
 
"Unless excepted by law, section 304, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304), requires 
that every article of foreign origin (or its container) imported into the United States shall be 
marked in a conspicuous place as legibly, indelibly, and permanently as the nature of the article 
(or container) will permit, in such manner as to indicate to an ultimate purchaser in the United 
States the English name of the country of origin of the article, at the time of importation into the 
Customs territory of the United States. Containers of articles excepted from marking shall be 

[Page 4]
marked with the name of the country of origin of the article unless the container is also excepted 
from marking." 
 
This applies to both the product manufactured by the vendor and any products the vendor may be supplying 
that were manufactured and/or purchased in a foreign country. The country of origin should be listed on the 
commercial invoice for every item included on the invoice and in close proximity to the item listed.  In the 
event this information cannot be listed on the commercial invoice, a Country of Origin Declaration should 
be completed.  A Country of Origin Declaration is included as Appendix E. 
 
Toxic Substance Control Act Certification 
 
If you are supplying any substance, subject to regulation under Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA), a 
TSCA Certification MUST accompany the shipment.  A sample TSCA Certificate accompanies these 
instructions (See Appendix F).  This form MUST be printed on your company letterhead and MUST be 
signed by the appropriate official. 
 
 
 
NAFTA Certificates or Other Certificates of Origin 
 
When a NAFTA Certificate is required because the goods being provided are the product of either Mexico 
or Canada, it is the suppliers responsibility to provide a properly executed NAFTA Certificate.  A sample 
NAFTA Certificate along with instructions on its completion is provided as Appendix G.  Instructions for 
completing the NAFTA Certificate are provided as H. 
 
 
Customs - Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) 
 
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company is a certified member of the Customs –  Trade Partnership Against 
Terrorism, otherwise know as C-TPAT.  As a C-TPAT partner, Goodyear is committed to a secure supply 
chain.  As a supplier of goods to the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, you are part of that supply chain 
and hence, a partner in our commitment.    
 
Therefore, the Customs Compliance Department of the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company is asking that 
you complete and return the attached Security Profile Checklist. This checklist is in conjunction with 
Goodyear’s participation in C-TPAT.  This checklist accompanies these instructions as Appendix I.  
 
If you are already a certified member of C-TPAT you need not complete the entire checklist.  Instead, 
indicate your C-TPAT participation in the space provided on the Security Profile Checklist, your date of 
certification and your C-TPAT SVI number.  Please sign the checklist in the space provided. 
 
Completed forms should be returned to: 
 
Via mail: The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company 
Customs Compliance Department #629 
1144 East Market Street 
Akron, Ohio  44316 
 
Via Fax:  330-796-7643  
(Please note –  This fax number is for the return of Security Profile Checklists ONLY) 
 
Via e-mail to:   ddhowsare@goodyear.com 
 
 
 

[Page 5]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 