Purpose
This statement is intended to meet Panduit Corp.’s reporting obligations under the U.K. Modern Slavery Act (2015), Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 and Canadian Fighting Against Forced Labour and Child Labour in Supply Chains Act (Bill S-211) collectively referred to as (“Acts”). This statement describes our efforts to address modern slavery and child labor, and covers Panduit’s business, including all wholly owned and controlled subsidiaries and our supply chain.
Reporting Entity
Panduit Corp. (“Panduit”) as a U.S. based privately held company headquartered in Tinley Park IL, USA, is providing a joint statement regarding modern slavery forced labor and child labor. We are a highly centralized company and have an interconnected supply chain, using many of the same suppliers and shipping between related entities. Our entities around the world use similar if not the same policies and processes and operate in the same industry sector (telecommunications network infrastructure).
This report will provide the requested information under the Acts on the procedures and policies Panduit takes to remediate and reduce the risk of forced or child labor in its supply chain.
Reporting Entity’s Structure, Operations/Activities and Supply Chain Structure
Panduit is a leader in infrastructure products and services for data networks and electrical power applications. It provides products that are essential to data centers and office facilities to plant floors and processing lines. We design, build, install, and service innovative solutions. Panduit has a global presence with over 6,000 employees worldwide. In the reporting countries of Australia, Canada, and UK, each has less than 60 employees.
Panduit’s global reach is achieved through regional sales offices, warehousing locations, and distribution partners. Panduit has manufacturing locations in China, Malaysia, Mexico, Costa Rica, Romania, and the U.S. There are warehouses in the Netherlands, Singapore, China, Mexico and two primary locations in the U.S., one in Dekalb, Illinois and one in Merrillville, Indiana. The two in the U.S are primary supplying locations to other Panduit warehouses and manufacturing locations globally. However, as global supply chains shift, there may be situations where global locations receive product from each other and/or local suppliers. Canada’s imports are first sent to a third-party managed warehouse or drop-shipped to Panduit customers. Australia maintains inventory levels in support of customer sales. Costa Rica is the largest manufacturing location that supplies the U.S., Netherlands, Australia, Canada, Malaysia, China, Japan, and Mexico directly.
Most of Panduit’s international shipments are between related companies and manufacturing locations. However, this may include products and services from third parties, where the product or service stays local or moves across borders. While our overall expenditure increased with third party suppliers, who and where that occurs didn’t change significantly from the 2025 report.
In 2025, Panduit had approximately 4,996 direct and indirect suppliers and a spend of $912,853.
| Suppliers by geographic Region |  | 
| NORTH AMERICA | 35% | 
| ASIA-PACIFIC (APAC) | 25% | 
| LATAM | 21% | 
| EMEA | 19% | 
| Suppliers by Monetary Spend |  | 
| NORTH AMERICA | 59% | 
| ASIA-PACIFIC (APAC) | 21% | 
| LATAM | 10% | 
| EMEA | 9% | 
I. Structure, activities and supply chains of each country or region subject to the Acts
Simplified Structure of Panduit reporting entities covered by this statement
Details of reporting countries:
Panduit Corp. (“Panduit”) has a business presence in Canada through its subsidiary Panduit Canada Corporation (“Panduit Canada”) (BN 865704829) and has a registered mailing address at 1741 Lower Water Street, PO Box 997, Halifax NS B3J 2X2. Panduit Canada holds inventory temporarily while in transit to the customers and acts as an importer into Canada. Local cross-dock warehousing of imported products is managed by a third-party logistics company. All sales made by Panduit Canada to Canadian customers are fulfilled from either the third-party logistics provider location or drop-shipped to the customer from Panduit U.S., DeKalb, Illinois or Merrillville, Indiana warehouse.
Panduit has a business presence in the United Kingdom through its Panduit Europe Ltd. (VAT:GB867289956) with a corporate office at 184 Shepherds Bush Rd. London. This entity employs EMEA support staff such as finance and human resources. Panduit’s German entity, Panduit GmBH, sells products to customers located in the UK and product is shipped from the Panduit Netherlands warehouse, which acts as the importer when required.
Panduit Holding Corp. has a business presence in Australia (ABN:82007508876) that manages a warehouse operation at 21 Endeavour Court, Dandenong South, Victoria 3175, Australia. It employs several employees at the warehouse, including sales. Panduit Australia imports product from other Panduit warehouse and manufacturing locations.
Panduit meets the thresholds outlined in each of the respective Modern Slavery Acts reporting based on its global presence and other global financial requirements established by each Act.
II. Policy and Due Diligence, Risk Management
We are working towards ensuring all internal policies meet standards established by international organizations, to identify and prevent modern slavery in our supply chain. We have a long-standing commitment to ethical behavior which includes labor standards and fair employment practices. You will find these stated in our:
Company Policies
- Supplier Code of Conduct (the “Supplier Code of Code”) outlines clear expectations of our supply chain partners and invites them to participate in our commitment to work responsibly. Our suppliers are expected to comply fully with all international laws and regulations around the world, which include labor standards.
- Panduit’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (the “Code of Conduct”) contains reporting mechanisms available to internal and external parties to identify any unethical behavior on the part of Panduit or our business partners, including our supply chain partners. The Code of Conduct sets forth the ethical standards and expectations for all Panduit employees and all third parties doing work for us around the world. The Code of Conduct is available in various languages on the company’s website.
- Conflict Mineral’s Statement
III. Risk Assessment
A Human Rights Impact Assessment was performed in 2025 that took into consideration relevant internal and external stakeholders who are at risk of forced or child labour. The assessment found few areas of improvement for internal policy awareness and consistency, but no significant concerns of the risk of modern slavery. An outside review of our Impact Assessment was performed in preparation for our Ecovadis rating process (Achieved Silver rating in 2025).
We will continue to monitor changes in the global supply chain and seek how best to obtain information to assess additional tiers of the supply chain (suppliers, global sourcing of raw materials (ex. conflict minerals) that may have an impact on our forced/child labor risk. Based on volume of imports and a broader scope of products indicated as having potential risk of forced or child labour by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of International Labor Affairs there is a slight increase from (<2%) to (<3%) of our supply chain at risk of having forced/child labour. This increase is because we considered the U.S. Department of Labor’s report on aluminum from China and other markets.
Communication of Risk
We use Eco Vadis 2025 ranking of silver along with the Panduit 2024-2025 Sustainability Report to communicate our general risks of modern slavery. Finally, a quarterly executive review with Panduit’s Risk and Compliance Team is conducted to assign resources or take action to address company risks.
IV. Remediation of loss of income
Panduit has not taken any direct measures to remediate the loss of income resulting from measures taken to eliminate the use of forced/child labor in 2025 since forced labor risk was not identified as significantly impacting our supply chain.
V. Direct Remediation and Actions
Measures taken to remediate forced/child labor in the supply chain are under review. We are establishing our program to identify risks and monitor high-risk products and raw material vendors. Given we have not identified specific issues or significant risks, Panduit has not taken any direct measures to remediate any forced/child labor in 2025. As we build out our program, we will consider how to directly remediate forced labor concerns in the supply chain when or if they occur.
If a product in our supply chain is alleged to benefit from forced or child labor, our Global Trade Compliance Team, Sourcing Department and Legal Department would investigate the matter and, if substantiated, take appropriate action involving the relevant supplier, which may include preventative measures, working with supplier to remedy the issues, or termination of the supplier and notifying relevant legal authorities in the appropriate jurisdiction.
VI. Training and Assessed Effectiveness
We have bi-annual training on our Code of Conduct and are revising this training for effectiveness. Our Code of Conduct expresses our commitment to a responsible supply chain. Panduit employees are trained annually through our on-line learning center on a variety of topics that bring awareness to labor concerns. Training specifically to forced and child labor was offered by the company as standalone training, to our global Sourcing team members. As this training is implemented by the Ethics and Compliance department, we will measure and track the success of our efforts to prevent and reduce the risks of forced labour.
VII. Assessment of Program Effectiveness
Panduit has focused its efforts on making enhancements to our vendor due diligence program, and we expect that refining our protocols will be an ongoing process. We expect to develop meaningful metrics to assess the effectiveness of our program in preventing and/or reducing forced/child labor as our program matures.
Attestation and Approval of Report
This report was approved by the VP, Legal & General Consuel and will be presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Panduit on August 11, 2026, pursuant to subparagraph provided in each relevant Modern Slavery Act(s):
- 11(4)(b)(ii) of the Canadian Fighting Against Forced Labour and Child Labour in Supply Chain Act
- 16(1e) of the Australian Modern Slavery Act
- 6a of the UK Modern Slavery Act
In accordance with the requirement of the Act(s), I attest that I have reviewed the information contained in the report for the entity or entities listed above. Based on my knowledge, and having exercised reasonable due diligence, I attest that the information on the report is true, accurate and complete in all material respects for the purposes of the Act, for the reporting year listed above.
Chris Clancy VP, Legal & General Counsel