Aurubis AG, one of the largest copper recyclers worldwide, announced the opening of its Aurubis Richmond (Augusta, GA) facility September 24, 2025.
According to the company press release, it’s the first U.S. multimetal recycling and smelter plant of its kind. The facility, already in operation, is producing key strategic metals such as copper, nickel, tin, and precious metals, for American manufacturers.
Naveed Moghadam, Commercial Director at Aurubis, stated at ReMA’s September 2025 Copper Roundtable that the company wants to be a first mover against its competition.
“We see the U.S. as a key and growing market where development is happening,” Moghadam said. “We invested in the site because we wanted to be one of the first players to support manufacturing being reshored to North America.”
From the company press release: “The demand for strategic metals, such as copper, is rising steadily worldwide. American industry alone currently needs about 1.8 million tons of copper per year. Experts estimate demand will rise nearly 30% in the next five years.
“As of now, the US imports about half of the copper it processes. Multimetal recycling can close this gap quickly: As the first, and most technologically advanced, secondary smelter, Aurubis Richmond reinforces the independence of American supply chains by processing complex recycling materials.”
The new facility, which is the nation’s largest and most advanced secondary smelter, will provide metals for AI and data centers, energy infrastructure, electrification, and defense. The company invested $800M in building the new site and has added 240 high-quality industrial jobs to the local area.
Be sure to watch the company video for further details (click / tap the image; the link goes to company press release page):
U.S. continues to see strong EV sales
ReMA Copper Roundtable participants agreed that copper is a critical material for the future and that demand is great.
As noted in our January 26, 2025 copper update, AI and data centers are two main drivers of copper demand. Projected electricity consumption from data centers is expected to double by 2026, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA).
While EV sales in the U.S. increased 7.3% in 2024, consumers have been slower to adopt these vehicles than the rest of the world, said David Brooks, Global Head of Metals at Argus Media.
According to the IEA’s “Trends in electric car markets” report, global electric car sales exceeded 17 million in 2024 — totaling 20% of new car market. Global EV sales were 25% higher in 2024 than 2023.
Approximately 1.3 million EVs were sold in the U.S. during 2024 — a 7.3 increase over the previous year and roughly 12% of global sales.
On June 30, the White House announced tariffs on all copper products, excluding copper cathodes, which the market needs. “The tariff on copper products is designed to encourage new mills in the U.S. and more domestic production,” said David Brooks.
These are all encouraging signs, and we thank ReMA for remaining on top of these developments.