Automotive Components
We are more than just a one-stop store for the cost-effective mass production of components and complex assemblies. As a reliable partner, we provide planning and delivery reliability throughout the entire product lifecycle—from co-engineering and series ramp-up to global scaling. With customized logistics concepts, we integrate seamlessly into your manufacturing processes, and our global service network with locations on four continents ensures reliability and proximity to your markets.
We deliver added value in metal forming
Thanks to our expertise and the specialized knowledge of our specialists in materials, tools, forming, and assembly, you can benefit from quality and efficiency all under one roof.
We form good parts of your success
With our comprehensive expertise in all forming technologies, we consistently deliver the highest quality, whether it’s high-strength parts with optimum crash performance, body-in-white assemblies or outer skin panels with excellent surface quality.
People form success
Helping to shape, mold and steer the mobility of tomorrow requires innovative, efficient solutions and, above all, people who want to make a difference with skill and passion. As a business unit of the Metal Forming Division of voestalpine, Automotive Components provides an attractive environment with interesting training and development opportunities.
Zero CO2 – our formula for the future
Full power to zero! The entire voestalpine Metal Forming Division, including the Automotive Components Business Unit, has a mission: we want our production to be CO2-neutral by 2035. Find out more here:
State-of-the-art technology for prevention and quality
At voestalpine Automotive Components, we rely on state-of-the-art equipment and innovative technologies to meet the highest quality standards and ensure maximum occupational safety. Our fully automated production processes and intelligent control systems always ensure precision, reliability and a safe working environment.
Latest Insights & Highlights
All battery box components from a single source
With state-of-the-art production technologies, many years of expertise and a comprehensive product portfolio, we offer a pioneering complete solution that sets new standards in electromobility.
News in Motion – from the world of Automotive Components
Numbers that speak a clear language
Always well informed
Do you want personal information or would you like to learn more about the business unit Automotive Components and innovative steel products? We would be pleased if you contacted us. Let your ideas fly! We are happy to help.