“A 15% tariff on auto imports from the EU represents a manageable year-over-year increase of 12.5% from the previous level. The effects can be mitigated in several ways.” 
Jose Asumendi
Head of European Automotive Research, J.P. Morgan
A patchwork of autos tariffs is impacting the market and, in some cases, leading to an environment of increased uncertainty. Cars entering the U.S. are subject to a 25% import tax, and so are key auto parts including engines and transmissions. However, tariffs vary depending on individual trade agreements the U.S. has in place, making for a complex picture.
For Mexico — the largest importer of autos to the U.S. — and Canada, 25% tariffs are applicable to many auto parts, though discounts are available for products compliant with the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). The U.S. has also reached trade agreements with Japan and South Korea, the second and third largest exporters of vehicles destined for the U.S. market, locking in tariffs of 15%.
The U.K. has secured a trade deal with the U.S. that reduces car export tariffs to 10%. But there is still uncertainty surrounding the implementation of autos tariffs on EU imports, where Germany and Italy are major exporters. A 15% tariff has been secured on autos and auto parts, but it’s unclear exactly when this will be implemented. “In our view, a 15% tariff represents a manageable year-over-year increase of 12.5% from the previous level,” said Jose Asumendi, head of the European Automotive team at J.P. Morgan. “The effects can be mitigated in several ways, including increased localization of products in the U.S. and some small price increases in the region.”
“Trade deals with key partners such as the U.K., Japan, the EU and South Korea have led consumers to accept that auto tariffs are here to stay.”
Ryan Brinkman
Head of U.S. Autos & Auto Parts, J.P. Morgan Global Research
The annualized pace of U.S. auto sales has accelerated significantly, moving up from a seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) of around 15.3 million in June to around 16.4 million in July, according to Wards Auto. “The acceleration in industry sales pace can be attributed to a number of factors, and tariffs are part of that picture,” said Ryan Brinkman, head of U.S. Autos & Auto Parts at J.P. Morgan. “We saw a waning ‘payback’ effect from earlier tariff-inspired pre-buys that pulled sales into March and April. But we are likely seeing another round of pre-buy activity in anticipation of future price hikes, which are likely to occur alongside the launch of 2026 model year variants. Trade deals with key partners such as the U.K., Japan, the EU and South Korea have led consumers to accept that auto tariffs are here to stay.”
“For the most part, we see automakers and consumers paying the year one $41 billion tab.”
J.P. Morgan Global Research estimates combined tariffs on vehicles and parts will be around $41 billion in the first year. This amounts to an increase of around $2,580 per vehicle — approximately 5.8% of the average retail price.
In year two, this will increase to around $45 billion, which is approximately an additional $2,806 per vehicle, and around 6.3% of the average retail price.
In year three, the total tariff impact is expected to be $52 billion — an increase of around $3,258 per vehicle, or 7.3% of the average retail price.
|  | Total impact | Increase in cost per vehicle | Percentage increase | 
|---|---|---|---|
| Year 1 | $41 billion | $2,580 | 5.8% | 
| Year 2 | $45 billion | $2,806 | 6.3% | 
| Year 3 | $52 billion | $3,258 | 7.3% | 
Source: J.P. Morgan Global Research. The total impact represents the estimated tariff impact on U.S. light vehicle imports (finished automobiles) and auto parts imports, covering all OEMs and incorporating the change in tariff rate for Europe to 15%.
Analysis by J.P. Morgan Global Research points to automakers almost entirely compensating suppliers for any direct tariff costs incurred. “Dealer margins could compress some, and supplier margins may compress a little, but for the most part, we see automakers and consumers paying the year one $41 billion tab,” Brinkman said. However, there could be some difficulty or lag in passing along certain tariff costs, such as those buried deep within the supply chain.
Automakers and consumers are expected to share the burden equally, suggesting a 3% increase to new vehicle price inflation. This will hit consumers hard, especially as many are already struggling to afford new vehicles. The average transaction price (ATP) has grown 28%, pushing monthly payments up 34% since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. In light of this, J.P. Morgan Global Research predicts sales will weigh in at around 15.5 million SAAR for the next three years. This is 3% lower than 2024’s SAAR of approximately 16 million.
Here’s what J.P. Morgan Global Research knows so far regarding manufacturer plans to deal with tariff-related price increases:
“Manufacturers will be increasing the localization of products in the U.S. and on the whole, we expect them to carry out low-single-digit price increases in the region,” Asumendi said. “In our view, European manufacturers should still be able to benefit from being net exporters from the U.S. into Europe as well as deducting a percentage of the value of the car made in the U.S. for any tariffs imposed on imported components.”
“For now, suppliers are likely to be almost entirely reimbursed by their automaker customers for any direct tariff costs incurred,” Brinkman added. “But automakers cannot expect similar treatment from their tapped out customers, likely leading to several hundred basis points of margin compression from variable costs rising in excess of price. Automakers and suppliers will both suffer fixed cost deleverage as a result of fewer units, given demand destruction.”
This material (Material) is provided for your information only and does not constitute: (i) an offer to sell, a solicitation of an offer to buy, or a recommendation for any investment product or strategy, or (ii) any investment, legal or tax advice. The information contained herein is as of the date and time referenced in the Material and J.P. Morgan does not undertake any obligation to update such information. J.P. Morgan disclaims any responsibility or liability, whether in contract, tort (including, without limitation, negligence), equity or otherwise, for the quality, accuracy or completeness of the information contained in this Material, and for any reliance on, or uses to which, this Material, is put, and you are solely responsible for any use to which you put such information. Without limiting any of the foregoing, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall J.P. Morgan have any liability for any special, punitive, indirect, or consequential damages (including lost profits or lost opportunity), in connection with the information contained in this Material, even if notified of the possibility of such damages. Any comments or statements made herein do not necessarily reflect those of J.P. Morgan, its subsidiaries or its affiliates.
All materials and information shared with you are, unless otherwise indicated to you, proprietary and confidential to J.P. Morgan. You are hereby notified that any disclosure, dissemination, copying, distribution, or use of the information provided to you, in whole or in part, other than as expressly permitted by J.P. Morgan, is STRICTLY PROHIBITED. You are permitted to disclose the materials and information to your officers and employees on a need to know basis. Should you have any questions regarding this, please contact your usual J.P. Morgan contact. For further information please visit: https://www.jpmorgan.com/pages/disclosures/materialdisclaimer.
© 2025 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved. J.P. Morgan is a marketing name for businesses of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. (member of FDIC), J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (member of FINRA, NYSE and SIPC), J.P. Morgan Securities plc (member of the London Stock Exchange and authorized by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the PRA) and J.P. Morgan SE (authorised by the BaFin and regulated by the BaFin, the German Central Bank and the European Central Bank) are principal subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase & Co. For legal entity and regulatory disclosures, visit: www.jpmorgan.com/disclosures. For additional regulatory disclosures, please consult: www.jpmorgan.com/disclosures.