Any questions? Simply contact our purchasing team by e-mail: [email protected].
For matters relating to import processing, you can reach us at: [email protected]
We will be pleased to assist you further.
The main aim is to contribute to the achievement of the company goals. The main goal of the company is to contribute to the success of our customers by delivering excellent instrumentation solutions in terms of quality, price, delivery reliability, flexibility and providing service in order to realise sales and profit so that our company can survive and grow. This includes providing service to customers in the areas of purchasing/procurement. The main customers in the areas of purchasing/procurement are our internal customers such as, for example, technology, development, production, marketing ... and on the other hand - via sales - the end customers. The aim is the achievement of a high customer satisfaction.
Organisation
After extensive investigations, WIKA has chosen the most suitable organisational form in purchasing and, as a globally-operating group, uses the synergy and globalisation effects of the Material Group Management (MGM).
Purchasing policy
We treat our suppliers as we would like to be treated by our customers.
When selecting suppliers, as well as commercial and qualitative aspects, we also consider the possibility for a long-term, productive and process-oriented partnership.
We promote cooperation with our suppliers on the basis of good commercial practice and mutual trust.
We actively generate competition between potential suppliers and expect the highest level of expertise at a reasonable total cost.
We consciously integrate our suppliers into our supply chain and, in addition to flexibility, openness, creativity and reliability, we expect a value creation that goes beyond mere pricing.
We are constantly striving to reduce our energy consumption, so when purchasing products, together with price and cost-effectiveness, the energy efficiency of products is also assessed.
Supplier evaluation
We continuously assess approved suppliers according to their delivery performance and efficiency - in a team consisting of the material group manager/lead buyer responsible, logistics, technology and our quality department. The supplier assessment is carried out at least once a year and forms the basis for further cooperation. The aim of our supplier assessment is to jointly develop strategies for optimising cooperation and to review them continuously.
Information for suppliers
Should you as a supplier or logistics service provider have any questions regarding import processing or customs clearance, please feel free to contact our responsible specialist department (see adjacent contact person).
The following list gives you an overview of the material groups needed by us as well as some product examples:
Turned parts (non-ferrous and stainless steel)
Electronic components (cable, measuring resistors, printed circuit boards, pin headers, active and passive components)