Yamaha Motor Corporation is moving its U.S. headquarters to Georgia after half a century in California to increase profitability amid higher costs from tariffs.
After almost 50 years on the West Coast, Yamaha U.S. headquarters is moving across the country to Kennesaw, Georgia. The relocation will begin this year and continue through 2028.
Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp shared the announcement in a press release on Tuesday. 
“This is another loud and clear testament to what we offer job creators from around the world. To any other California-based companies looking for a better home, we’ll give you plenty of reasons to keep Georgia on your mind,” said Kemp.
The Japanese manufacturer, best known for its motorcycles and ATVs, is selling its over-25-acre site in California as part of the transition, including the land, offices, and warehouses.
 
“Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. is undertaking structural reforms aimed at improving the profitability of its U.S. operations in response to cost increases resulting from U.S. tariffs and changes in the market environment,” said company officials in a press release.
The company continues to weather the impacts of President Donald Trump’s trade policies on the costs of importing the goods and materials it needs.
“The biggest question is how many exact jobs are coming in? And my estimate is something like 500 to 1,000. We’ll see how many in practice,” said Sina Golara, an assistant professor of supply chain management at Georgia State University.
Sina Golara added that Yamaha Motor Corp. is an international company, so part of its supply chain originates from outside the U.S. They make some parts, then move them to plants here for final manufacturing and sale.
“Everything that they’ve been manufacturing could be affected by tariffs. Between 5% to 20%, some of these items have become more expensive, which hurts them and makes them less able to absorb these costs. Potentially, that’s also another reason they’re moving away from California, at least just to cancel out some of the costs,” said Golara.
Yamaha already employs over 2,300 Georgians across various facilities, including its 1.3-million-square-foot factory in Newman, according to the state.
“It’s got a very robust logistics hub; whether it’s air traffic, sea, road, or rail, it’s in a very advantageous position. It’s also a business-friendly state with relatively lower costs than a place like California,” said Golara.
Yamaha relocated its marine division to Kennesaw over 25 years ago. The company expanded the facility to a 75,000-square-foot Marine Innovation Center in 2023. Just a few years earlier, the company moved its motorsports operations to Georgia to be closer to its existing facilities.